The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Canadian Druggist, Vol., 1, No. 2;
August, 1889, by William J. Dyas

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Canadian Druggist, Vol., 1, No. 2; August, 1889

Editor: William J. Dyas

Release Date: May 21, 2016 [EBook #52116]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CANADIAN DRUGGIST, VOL., 1, NO. 2; AUGUST, 1889 ***




Produced by Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images available at The Internet Archive)









                          CANADIAN DRUGGIST.

    VOL. I.       TORONTO AND STRATHROY, AUGUST, 1889.       NO. 2.




                        THE CANADIAN DRUGGIST,

                    5 Jordan Street, Toronto, Ont.
                          And Strathroy, Ont.

             WILLIAM J. DYAS,       Editor and Publisher.

                Subscription, $1 per Year, in Advance.

                   Advertising Rates on Application.


     The Canadian Druggist is issued on the 15th of each month, and all
     matter for insertion should reach us by the 5th of the month.

     All cheques or drafts, and matter intended for the editor, to be
     addressed to Box 438, Strathroy, Ont.

     New advertisements or changes to be addressed


             CANADIAN DRUGGIST, 5 JORDAN STREET, TORONTO.




FIRST RESULTS.


In our first issue we spoke confidently of the future prospects of this
journal, as to its filling a want in Pharmaceutical journalism in
Canada, of a certain recognition by druggists as THE organ of the
profession and of encouraging words from Pharmaceutical friends. We are
glad to say that we have not been mistaken in our expectations. From the
Provinces of Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island,
Manitoba and British Columbia we have already received congratulatory
letters as well as subscriptions, one and all virtually agreeing in the
verdict, “Just what we needed.” Appended are extracts from a few of the
letters received:

“Allow me to congratulate you on its make up, which I consider good.”

“Congratulate you on your first number and do not doubt your success.”

“Very complete and well calculated to find favour with every Canadian
chemist.”

“Congratulate you on the make up and contents of the CANADIAN DRUGGIST,
and wish you success in your enterprise.”

“Was pleased with the first issue of your journal and found a number of
items that would be of interest and use to the druggists of this
Province; trust that you may have the success that your enterprise most
assuredly entitles you to.”

“Find the CANADIAN DRUGGIST the most interesting paper for druggists in
the Dominion. I wish you success.”

One of our advertisers says that within two weeks after the publication
of the first number, he had business enquiries from two druggists in
Prince Edward Island and one in British Columbia, the extreme easterly
and westerly Provinces of our Dominion, mentioning the advertisement
which appeared in the CANADIAN DRUGGIST leading to the transaction of
business with them.




INSURANCE OF DRUG STOCKS.


By mutual consent of all fire insurance companies (and when will they
not agree to increase their own profits by raising rates), the rate on
ordinary drug stock is higher than ordinary merchandise rates, claiming
the greater risk on the former class. That this is not the case is shown
time and again from statistics which clearly prove that although drug
stock may and does include goods which are of a particularly inflammable
nature, yet the precautions taken, the description of containers in
which these goods are kept and the usually small proportion of them in a
retail store has reduced the number of fires originating in such
premises to a very small percentage of the total fire losses.

In Philadelphia a “Druggists’ Mutual Fire Insurance Company” has been
formed, and has issued a large number of policies. Would it not be well
for the druggists of Canada to consider the question either of concerted
action on their part to compel the insurance companies to give us more
reasonable rates, or failing in this to establish a company on somewhat
the same lines as the Philadelphia company? We append some extracts from
the Druggists’ Circular, showing the feeling which exists in the United
States in this matter:

At the annual meeting of the Ohio Pharmaceutical Association, held in
1888, a committee was appointed to investigate the subject of mutual
fire insurance. This committee has recently made public the results of
its work from which it appears that the druggists of that State pay
pretty dearly for their insurance. It is estimated by the committee,
from all that they can learn, that druggists by protecting themselves on
the mutual plan can save from one-half to three-quarters of the money
now expended for premiums.

There has long been an exceedingly strong suspicion in the minds of
druggists everywhere that the rates usually charged them for insurance
against fire were extravagant. When protesting against these charges
they have been confronted with pictures of the terribly dangerous
character of their stocks--how their stores were magazines of highly
inflammable substances, which by the breaking of a bottle, might in a
moment be involved in destruction.

To show that a pharmacy is in fact a rather safe place, so far as fire
is concerned, we may quote from the report above referred to that in
Cleveland the loss to retail druggists from that cause during a period
of eighteen years amounted to only $5,500; and in Cincinnati the loss in
eight years was but $3,000.




PHARMACISTS’ AIDS.


     There can be no doubt of the fact, that two of the most rapidly
     increasing demands upon the ability of the pharmacist of to-day,
     are analytical chemistry and microscopy. The former includes that
     class of demands that so frequently apply to the druggist for
     analysis of some special compound or even more often for an
     analysis of urine. These are not limited to the “ignorant (?)
     laity,” but are decidedly common requests from physicians
     themselves. It has only been a few years since these subjects
     became so important in the diagnosis of disease, and therefore only
     the decidedly studious or recent graduate appreciates or
     investigates the utility of their possibilities. Referring
     especially to the matter of urine analysis, for every druggist
     should be posted on analytical chemistry, we know that very few of
     our best pharmacists have made any special study of this specialty
     and the following is an ordinary result. The doctor, often for lack
     of time, quite as often for lack of information, applies to the
     pharmacist for an analysis of urine--presuming, the pharmacist
     cannot do it, naturally enough the doctor goes elsewhere, but does
     he ever return for any more such work? Does he ever refer anyone
     else to that store for it? No--all references in this line are to
     that pharmacist who is capable thereof. How many prescriptions, how
     much trade is thereby lost, transferred? Just because the first
     pharmacist could not do a little chemical analysis that would not
     have required more than twenty minutes of his time, for which,
     also, he would be paid. On the other hand, presuming, he says,
     “Yes, I will analyse it for you,” the doctor not only has reason to
     go there again for such work, not only refers other doctors, as
     also his patients, there, but trade, prescriptions, etc., are
     necessarily increased.

     We know a pharmacist who, as a result of this one department of
     analytical chemistry, took in two hundred dollars for the work
     itself in one year, to say nothing of the increase of trade thus
     induced. In other words, we believe that a pharmacist should not
     only be a druggist, but a chemist. He need not delve in the minute
     depths of the subject, but there are many of its minor branches
     like the one referred to--that require but little study or time,
     that not only add to his business, but give a scientific touch to
     his reputation that the public decidedly admire. As regards the
     microscope in pharmacy, the many and increasing articles in our
     different journals commending its value and use are but growing
     proofs of the fact that the pharmacist of the future will and must
     be a microscopist.

     Here we have another of the many minor studies, that are not only
     easily learned but quite as easily applied.

     The value of a microscope is illustrated readily by the fact that
     while every crystal, root, rhizome, leaf, powder, starch, etc.,
     have distinctive and individual peculiarities, yet very few of
     these are distinguishable by the naked eye, while all are easily
     resolved and can be identified by aid of a microscope and a little
     experience. When we think of the fact that England, France, Germany
     and other foreign countries make a business of manufacturing
     especial “adulterants for the American trade” we can comprehend the
     necessity of individual analysis. Of course the microscope can only
     apply to a part of these things, and many pharmacists have but few
     occasions to use its powers. Nevertheless if one possesses the
     knowledge to detect anise in conium, or vice versa, starch, sugar,
     etc., in quinine and antipyrine or powdered ipeac, to say nothing
     of coffee, pepper and many more drugs that are so commonly
     adulterated, he could save the price of his instrument in a
     comparatively short time, and while enjoying the pleasure of this
     delightful and instructive work would also know that he is
     conscientious in supplying pure articles to his customers.

     It is encouraging to know that microscopy has been gaining in
     importance in many of our pharmacy schools. Usually starting with
     small proportions and inefficient supplies--it, as a study,
     gradually works its way and proves its utility until to-day a
     number of the leading colleges require the work as one of the
     necessities for graduation. In many medical schools of the United
     States and Europe not only is microscopy applied temporarily but
     much stress is being laid on photomicrography, by which means its
     valuable investigations are easily preserved. It is evident that
     microscopy is one of the pharmaceutical advancements of the day. It
     has rapidly pressed its needs upon the scientific part of the
     profession. It is growing in demand. It is a comparatively new
     field and presents grand opportunities for observation,
     investigation and original work.

     As the time must surely come when a part of the pharmacist’s
     armament will be a microscope and microscopy, we wish to direct
     attention to the subject in the belief that those who would be
     progressive may be led to investigate its value.--[N. E. Druggist.




CUTTING PRICES.


In connection with this subject of cutting, the following interview of
an Era reporter with Mr. Alexander Hudnut, the proprietor of the great
cut rate store of Hegeman & Co., New York, will be read with interest.
Mr. Hudnut said:--

     The rebate plan, or any other system of artificial bolstering, is
     as futile as it would be to try and dam Niagara. Legislation on the
     subject is unnecessary and superfluous. The matter carries its own
     death warrant with it.

     Some six years ago the drug trade got together and formed a most
     beautiful plan for maintaining prices. Where is that beautiful plan
     now? The rebate system is probably its legitimate offspring. Come
     to me some years hence and I expect to be able to point to a string
     of lineal descendants of the rebate plan, each of them as helpless
     to perform what is expected as the other. The world ought to be
     wise enough by this time to recognize the fixity of the laws which
     govern commerce.

     I regard the principle of cutting as a settled policy in the drug
     business, and I shall pursue that steadily. Hegemann & Co. have
     done a business of about $325,000 annually. I expect to increase it
     to half a million dollars. In London the immense stores of the Army
     & Navy, and of the Civil Service have worked a revolution in the
     drug trade, by buying at first hands in immense quantities, and
     selling on close margin. They have even cut the rates on
     prescription business. The result has been that the chemists, as
     they call them there, have been compelled to come down in their
     prices, and a process of elimination has steadily gone on--the weak
     have had to go to the wall. The result is the “survival of the
     fittest.” These conditions apply to New York, and I venture to say
     that there are not over ten drug stores in the city of New York
     that are making their owners more than a living. With the rest it
     is simply a process of more or less rapid rusting out.

An absence of cut prices, and general prosperity marks the retail drug
trade of Cleveland. The Cleveland Pharmaceutical Association is clannish
and its dues are so moderate that almost the entire trade is within the
Association. This gives rise to a brotherly feeling which makes doing
business a pleasure; and prevents cuts and insures prosperity. The drug
trade in many cities suffers from wholesale slashing of prices from the
lack of such an Association as exists in Cleveland. The Association is
thoroughly organized, and the two wholesale houses in Cleveland do
everything in their power to help the retail trade along, and decline to
sell at retail in


OPIUM.


In Opium the reduced estimates of the probable yield from the current
crop, coupled with advices of higher prices in London and the primary
market, have caused a much firmer feeling here. The bulk of the spot
supply is controlled by three dealers who it is said are working in
harmony to raise prices, in which effort they have already made
considerable progress, it would appear, since at the close there was
very little standardized to be had at $3.10, the general quotation being
$3.15. Natural was held at $3.20 to $3.50. While there were no large
buyers in the market, the demand for single cases and broken lots was
very good. Powdered has advanced to $4.20 to $4.30 as to seller and
test. We have received the following from Smyrna under date of July
13th: “There is no longer doubt that if the yield of 5,000 baskets is to
be reached by the new crop (including the 1,250 baskets from Salonica)
the fields on the high grounds must yield much more than the lower
fields have shown up to the present moment--arrivals of 117 baskets
against 570 in 1888, which certainly is a poor showing. It is true that
in Constantinople, where they got the opium from the districts where the
gathering was made in advance of the others this season, they had
received 45 baskets against 125 last year, which is somewhat better than
we can show, but is still awfully poor. Holders are very sanguine and
will not sell their goods unless they get higher prices, and as they now
have increased facilities for depositing their goods with banks at
reasonable rates of interest, it is most probable that buyers will have
to accept their terms. The stocks abroad were large, but as they have
been kept all along at lower rates than what opium could be bought at in
the primary markets, they have gradually melted down to reasonable
quantities. London has hardly 1,000 cases, the greater part of which is
Persian and high grade Turkish, not suitable for the American market.
New York has about 500 cases which could be called ‘in the market.’ The
balance is held by outsiders who would not part with their opium unless
they get much higher prices for it. But all this is a matter of little
consideration to the native merchant in Turkey; he holds on to his opium
when he sees a small crop, and buyers will have either to live on the
European and New York stocks or pay them something better than the
starving prices they paid for the last few years.” Since this was
written, some cables advise crop estimates reduced to 4,500 baskets
(including Salonica), and prices in Smyrna from 9s. 3d. to 9s. 9d.




ADVANTAGES OF TRADE JOURNALS.


Trade journals have become an established institution, and the fact that
they have come to stay cannot longer be doubted. Their advantage, to
both the buyer as well as the seller, is manifested every day in the
change which has been wrought in the present manner of transacting
business. A few years ago, before these journals were established, if a
party desired to purchase a certain line of goods, the first thing he
would do would be to supply himself with the necessary funds, pack up
his grip and start out upon a tour of observation and inspection; and
after traveling over a large amount of territory and spending
considerable money, would finally succeed in finding the goods sought
for. The manufacturer who was desirous of introducing to the public any
new line of goods, was obliged to resort to the slow, expensive and
uncertain method of mailing out printed circulars, at the rate of ten
dollars per thousand for postage, besides the expense of printing,
folding and directing them; and perhaps eight out of every ten thus sent
out, if received at all by the parties to whom directed, would find
their way to the waste-paper basket without ever being opened. It being
impossible to reach every one by this method, the chances for striking
one who might be in want of the article named therein was often not one
in five hundred, while perhaps a hundred others might be omitted who
might be in want of it.

Advertising in a general way in the papers of the day was not a
profitable investment. Those papers having a very large circulation,
such as the “Scientific American,” the “Iron Age,” and others which
might be named, were valuable papers and probably were the best mediums
at that time; but their circulation, although very large, was general,
and while the advertiser was charged for the space occupied at a rate
based upon a circulation of 40,000 or 50,000 copies, yet in many
instances but very few of the trades interested and to whom it was
desirable to introduce the goods, were ever reached. For instance, the
“Iron Age” circulated principally among hardware and iron dealers, who
formed a considerable portion of its circulation, very few of whom had
any interest whatever in saw-mill or planing-mill machinery, and so on
with all other trades, and as before stated, while they were paying
exorbitant rates for advertising based upon the large circulation of
those journals, they were really deriving less benefit from it than they
would have received from a medium of one-quarter the circulation, but
devoted exclusively to this particular trade and circulated exclusively
among them.

Every trade is now represented by a journal devoted to that trade
exclusively, and a purchaser now, instead of spending large sums of
money and much valuable time in roaming over the country in search of
any particular line of goods, may sit down quietly in one corner of his
office and consult his trade paper, in which he will find the goods of
the most prominent and reliable manufacturers carefully described and
fully illustrated by fine, artistic cuts, so that all that is required
is to write to some of those houses, who will cheerfully answer all
inquiries, or in most cases, send their travelling man, who will come
prepared to give them all further information that may be required, and
their purchases may be made then and there to just as good advantage as
if they had spent $100 in travelling expenses, in order to visit the
same house in person. If any house is neglected by not being represented
in its own trade paper, it is its misfortune in not being represented,
and not the fault of the journal.

Another change has been brought about, and one that trade journals have
had more or less to do with: There is a different class of travelling
men representing these houses at the present time from what there was a
few years ago. Since buyers have abandoned the plan of visiting these
houses in person prominent manufacturers have found it for their own
interest to employ none but sober, competent and reliable men to
represent them--men who are well posted in the business and who are
competent to give intelligent and reliable information with regard to
the goods which they represent, and the result is that the public has
more confidence and is more ready to deal with them than formerly, while
the “bums” that formerly represented, or misrepresented, these houses
have disappeared from the road. Manufacturers find it to their advantage
to have their goods thus represented in these journals, for the reason
that while the rates are much lower than would be obtained in the former
mediums, they are sure every copy that is sent out from the office of
publication, whether the circulation be 1,000 or 10,000 per issue, will
be sure to fall into the hands of some one who is interested in their
particular line of goods.

The public has been benefited by trade journals in another manner which
can not be omitted. Almost every journal representing any particular
trade has secured the services of experienced and practical writers,
who, from long experience in this particular line, have become experts
in the business, and from whom much valuable information may be obtained
by those who have not had the same experience and advantages. Many young
men just starting out in life, either as proprietors or foremen in the
various trades, have received many valuable hints from these sources,
which have been of much benefit to them, and which might have required
years of experience before they could have acquired the same
information. And for this and other reasons which have been given, what
was said at the commencement of this article may be repeated, viz., that
the trade journals have come to stay.

No druggist can afford to do without his drug journal. Through the
columns of the CANADIAN DRUGGIST he may keep himself posted on new
remedies, approved appliances, fresh developments in the pharmaceutical
and chemical worlds; he can, at a glance, note the fluctuations in
prices of goods, and by careful perusal of the advertising columns (not
by any means the least important part of the trade journal) will keep
track of all specialties offered by our advertisers. Our advice is, Read
your trade paper regularly, and support it liberally.




DIGNITY IN BUSINESS.


It is not a good plan to descend to sensationalism in the methods of
conducting business. True enterprise is as far removed from the
rowdy-dowdy style of procedure as is day from night. All men are not
coarse and ignorant in their perceptions, and no business communication
or business announcement should be sent forth that is not gentlemanly
and delicate in both diction and sense. A contrary course will soon
convince its author that he is making a great mistake in stooping to
vulgarity and the small and unrefined side of men’s natures.

It is all very well to make a little noise occasionally, in order to
stir up languishing trade. The more noise the better, in fact, provided
it is only the right kind of noise, and not the discordant braying of
commercial fish-horns. A red-hot campaign now and then is the best thing
out, but it must be managed with skill and tact.

The most successful merchants of to-day recognize the fact that it does
not pay to abuse competitors. If one’s competitors are dishonorable and
tricky the public will find it out in the long run, whereas if they are
straightforward and progressive, no amount of slander will hurt them.
Praise your own wares truthfully and fearlessly, and let your neighbor’s
alone--that is the best way. Brag and bluster may do for a season, but
they don’t wear.

When a merchant advertises in the newspapers he is in great danger of
saying too much--or rather, of clothing what he does say in the wrong
terms. Slang should be avoided always. Never appeal to the passions and
prejudices of your patrons. Most men nowadays happily think with their
intellects. It is an error to suppose that we can either interest or
instruct people by first assuring them that they are all but hopelessly
ignorant. Human nature may be weak, but it is strong enough to resent
such offensive presumption. The public knows more than many a merchant
is willing to give it credit for.

In sending out trade letters and circulars it is not only unwise but
positively ruinous to assume an undignified and vulgar tone. Nothing
shows the ass in the lion’s skin so quickly. It should always be borne
in mind by the merchant or business man of whatever line that culture
and good breeding are appreciated even by the unlettered, and that is
asking favors--which every business man in some form or other does of
his patrons--the language of the gutter is not the proper means of
expression to employ. All business transactions should be dignified.




Smith & McGlashan Co,

[LIMITED]

WHOLESALE DEALERS IN

DRUGGISTS’ SPECIALTIES

Sundries and Fancy Goods

     Agents for E. B. Shuttleworth’s Fluid Extracts, Specialties and
     Pharmaceutical Preparations

Malleable Steel Spring, Reversible, Hard Rubber, Celluloid, and Elastic
Belt Trusses.

     Mailing orders for Trusses promptly filled. We make a specialty of
     Hard and Soft Rubber Sundries.


Our travellers are out with Holiday Goods and are showing a large line,
carefully selected from every Plush Goods maker in Canada. Our lines of
imported goods should be seen. We would remind our friends that we sell
almost exclusively to the Drug Trade.


SMITH & McGLASHAN CO., Limited

53 FRONT ST. E.

TORONTO,      -      ONT.


HICKSON, DUNCAN & CO.

25 FRONT STREET

Successors to

W. H. BLEASDELL & CO.


     In calling the attention of our numerous customers to our large and
     varied stock of Fancy Goods, are pleased to state that we are
     exceptionally well prepared to fill orders in large or small
     quantities, and at much better value than heretofore. Buying direct
     from the manufacturers in Germany, France and England, we can offer
     special inducements in all lines of

     DRUGGISTS’ AND TOBACCONISTS’ SUNDRIES

     Toys, Cutlery, Sporting Goods, Games, Vases, Brushes, Bisque
     Figures, Stationery, etc.

Yours respectfully,

HICKSON, DUNCAN & CO.




LAWSON & JONES

Forest City Label Works

LONDON,      -      -      CANADA

Established 1882

     We are the only firm in Canada devoting special attention to

     CHEMISTS’ PRINTING

     and with our present facilities we can successfully compete with
     any of the American or European Label houses.

     We invite comparison of our work and prices with others.

     We also supply Estes’ Turned Wood Boxes, Gill’s Seamless Tin Boxes,
     Paper Pill and Powder Boxes, Cartons and special lines of
     Containers.

Write for Catalogue.      Mention this paper.

LAWSON & JONES

226 King Street,      -      London, Canada




J. PALMER & SON

IMPORTERS OF

DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES

Sole Agents in Canada for

A. & F. PEAR’S SOAPS

DUPONT’S BRUSHES

BERTRAND’S PERFUMES

[Illustration]

The Largest and best assorted Stock in Canada of

BRUSHES, COMBS, SPONGES,

PERFUMERY,

CHAMOIS, SOAPS, FANCY GOODS,

TOILET REQUISITES.


1743 & 1745 NOTRE DAME

MONTREAL      -      -      CANADA.


Please mention CANADIAN DRUGGIST when ordering goods advertised.




LYMAN BROS.

& CO.

WHOLESALE

[Illustration: DRUGGISTS]

--AND--

Manufacturing

Chemists

WAREHOUSES:

71 & 73 Front St. East

CHEMICAL WORKS AND MILLS:

147 & 149 Front St. E.


TORONTO.


A full assortment of Drugs, Chemicals and every requisite for the retail
trade.




TRADE NOTES


Clarke & Co., of Kamloops, B.C., contemplate going more extensively into
manufacturing specialties.

Prof. Shuttleworth, of the Ontario College of Pharmacy, is enjoying a
well earned holiday in the North-West.

Mr. North, representative of the Recamier Manufacturing Co., New York,
has been in Montreal relative to the establishment of an agency in
Canada.

At a recent meeting of the New Brunswick Pharmaceutical Society, the
following officers were elected for the ensuing year: C. P. Clarke,
President; R. W. McCarty, Vice-President; R. E. Coupe, Secretary; I. C.
Cochrane, Treasurer; M. V. Paddock, A. C. Smith, W. Mowat, S. McDiarmid,
H. J. Dick, C. W. Parker, I. W. Racine, C. H. Fairweather, Council.

D. Taylor & Co. have purchased the drug business of J. B. Meacham, Yonge
Street Arcade, Toronto.

The stock of Lowden, Paton A Co., wholesale druggist’s sundries men, was
sold by auction at their warehouse, Front St., Toronto, on July 24 and
25. Fair prices were realized.

J. W. James, formerly with Dr. C. Clark, of Ridgetown, has been engaged
by J. W. Meek as manager of his branch drug store at Glencoe, Ont.

W. A. Lavel & Co., Smith’s Falls, have dissolved partnership. The
business is continued by W. A. Lavell.

J. W. Yeomans, formerly in business in Hamilton, is on the road for the
Davis & Lawrence Co.

Mr. Harry Warwick, of Warwick Freres, Grasse, France, was in the city
this week.

Mr. Houston, formerly with the Davis & Lawrence Co., is on the road for
Messrs. Thos. Leeming & Co., Montreal.

R. T. Shaw, the Almonte druggist, assigned for creditors’ benefit on the
24th July.

Dr. C. J. Edgar, of Inverness, P.Q., has just sold out his drug
business.

Tyrrell H. Duncombe, who has been clerking in his cousin Dr. Duncombe’s
drug store in St. Thomas, has just bought out the business.

Among the many losses by death that we have heard of lately we regret
exceedingly to have to announce that of Thomas B. Barker, who has for
years been doing business as a wholesale druggist in St. John. His son,
who of late years has been a partner in the firm, will continue the
business.

W. B. Thompson, the Cornwall druggist, is advertising his business for
sale by tender.

G. W. Henderson, who has for years had a well established drug business
in Liverpool, N.S., died early in the month.

R. O. Snider & Co., Toronto, were fined for breach of the Weight and
Measures Act.

Stuart W. Johnston’s store at the Island makes a bright spot. Mr.
Unsworth, his assistant, reports business good.

Lowden, Paton & Co.’s sale was largely attended by retail men and some
good bargains were picked up.

Mr. Lowden is now the selling agent of the Burlington Glass Company, a
line in which he is thoroughly versed.

J. F. Holland, the druggist and stationer in the town bearing his own
name, was burned on 30th July.

Mellin’s food has advanced 5% owing to the duty being raised to 35% and
1¼c. lb.

R. Weir, Toronto, has removed from Yonge St. to corner of Isabella and
Jarvis.

C. H. Cowen, corner Wilton Ave. and Parliament, has removed to corner
Carlton and Parliament Sts., Toronto.

Auction sales are very unsatisfactory affairs at all times, and we fear
that there was no exception to the rule in the case of Lowden, Paton &
Co., who got rid of most of their stock the last week in July through
the assistance of Suckling, Cassidy & Co., the Toronto trade
auctioneers. When people buy at auctions, if they are well posted in
values, they rarely bid above half the value of the goods and if the
quantities are large they are not content unless they obtain decided
bargains. At the Lowden-Paton sale plush goods were sold in large
quantities at prices that would scarcely pay for the fittings, while
rubber goods and extracts simply brought no value at all. This sale is
but another reminder of the fact that a stock and business are not in
themselves of any more value than they will bring under the hammer, but
are merely means to an end--an annual income. When taking stock this
fact should not be forgotten and a liberal discount should always be
made on fixtures and such goods as are considered poor or dead stock.

       *       *       *       *       *

The wise druggist: “Well, sonny, what is it?” asked the drug clerk,
peering over the counter at the 3-feet mite of humanity. “Mamma sent me
to get a piece of soap--cast-iron, I think she said.” “We don’t keep any
summer hotel soap here,” returned the clerk; “you must have mistaken the
metal. Wasn’t it Castile?”--[Life.




FORMULÆ.


DR. FLINT’S TONIC.

Dr. Austin Flint gives (_N. Y. Med. Jour._) the formula of a saline and
chalybeate tonic which is now prepared by several leading drug houses in
New York city in the form of tablets. It is used with success in loss of
appetite, etc., and is also said to be an excellent remedy in Bright’s
disease. The following is the formula:--

Sodii chloridi          3 ij
Potassii chloridi       gr. ix.
   “     sulph          gr. vj.
   “     carb           gr. iij.
Sodii carb              gr. xxxvj.
Magnes. carb            gr. iij.
Calc. phos. præcip      ℨss.
  “   carb              gr. iij.
Ferri redacti           gr. xxvij.
  “   carb              gr. iij.

Mix and divide into 60 tablets, two of which may be taken three times a
day after eating.


FRECKLE LOTION.

Hydrochlorate of ammonium   4 parts.
Dilute hydrochloric acid    5 parts.
Lait virginal              50 parts.
Glycerin                   30 parts.

Mix, with strong and continued agitation. The freckles are to be touched
morning and evening with a camel’s hair pencil wet with this solution.
“Lait virginal” is a mixture of 2 parts tincture of benzoin with 62
parts orange flower water.--_L’ Union Medicale._


BENZINE JELLY.

To make a benzine jelly for removing grease spots from textiles _Meyer
Bros.’ Druggist_ recommends the following:


I.

Infusion of soap bark, 20 per
    cent.                       4 fl. dra.
Benzine                         2 fl. ozs.

Mix and shake for half an hour and then let stand for 12 hours to
gelatinize.


II.

A translucent, gelatinized benzine can be made as follows:

Tincture of soap bark     12 fl. drs.
Benzine to make            8 fl. ozs.

Mix as in first formula.


SACHET POWDERS.

The following formulæ for sachet powders are given in the _Chemist and
Druggist_:

    _Lavender._         Parts.
Lavender flowers          128
Thyme                       8
Mint                        4
Oil of lavender             1
Cloves                      4
Tincture of ambergris       2

   _New Mown Hay._      Parts.
Orris root              2 200
Tonka beans               300
Vanilla                   300
Oil of bitter almonds       1
Oil of rose geranium       12
Oil of rose                 3
Oil of bergamot             6
Extract of musk            64

 _Jockey Club._         Parts.
Orris root                600
Sandal wood               100
Oil of bergamot            16
Oil of rose                 1
Extract of musk            32
Extract of civet           16

     _Violet._          Parts.
Orris root                400
Rhodium wood              100
Rose leaves               100
Black currant leaves      100
Benzoin                     4
Musk pods                   8
Oil of bitter almonds

The solids should be in a coarse powder, freshly ground.


TOOTHACHE DROPS.

Morphine acetate     gr. j.
Oil peppermint       gtts. v.
Phenol               gtts. xx.
Collodion            fℨi.

M. Apply with cotton. _Jour. de Med._




PHARMACY MEETING.


The half-yearly meeting of the Ontario College of Pharmacy was opened in
the college buildings, Gerrard Street East, Toronto, on Tuesday, August
6th, at 3 o’clock p.m. There were present: Mr. John A. Clark, Hamilton;
Mr. J. E. D’Avignon, Windsor; John J. Hall, Woodstock; G. S. Hobart,
Kingston; Andrew Jeffrey, Toronto; L. T. Lawrence, London; John McKee,
Peterboro’; J. H. Mackenzie, Toronto; C. H. McGregor, Brantford; A. B.
Petrie, Guelph; J. W. Slaven, Orillia, and Henry Watters, Ottawa.

On the motion of Mr. John McKee, seconded by Mr. Andrew Jeffrey, the
President, Mr. John A. Clark, Hamilton, was appointed Chairman.

The Chairman called upon Mr. Isaac T. Lewis who read the result of the
election of members to the council and the number of ballots cast for
each and the same was approved.

President Clark said that when he undertook the duties of president two
years ago, he realized that it would be a task of considerable
difficulty to discharge the duties to the satisfaction of the members of
the Board. He hoped the meeting would not be characterised by any
unpleasant feeling such as had been manifested in the late Council.

Nominations for Vice-President having been declared in order, Mr. J. E
D’Avignon moved the appointment of Mr. W. B. Saunders, and Mr. C. H.
McGregor moved Mr. J. Hall. Mr. Hall was elected, only one ballot being
cast for Mr. Saunders who was not present.

The Vice-President, in the course of a brief speech, expressed the
reluctance he felt in opposing Mr. Hall. He would reserve his reasons
for doing so until Mr. Saunders was present. It was necessary in giving
effect to the new act that men who held office before should be
identified with the Council. He would do his best to secure for the
college any of the benefits obtained from the act.

On the motion of Mr. J. H. Mackenzie, seconded by Mr. L. T. Lawrence,
Mr. Isaac T. Lewis was re-elected Treasurer and Registrar for the next
two years.

The Chairman stated that the auditor, Mr. Daniels was away in England,
and that it would be necessary to appoint another for the unexpired
term. On the motion of Mr. J. H. Mackenzie, seconded by Mr. J. McKee,
Mr. W. A. Hargreaves appointed for the unexpired term.

Mr. H. Watters, seconded by Mr. John McKee, moved that a committee
consisting of Messrs Slaven, Hall, Jeffrey and the mover and seconder be
appointed to strike standing committees.

Mr. C. H. McGregor, seconded by Mr. J. J. Hall, moved as an amendment
that Messrs. Hobart, Watters, Petrie, Mackenzie and McGregor receive the
appointment. The amendment was lost by eight votes to four.

Mr. D’Avignon moved the adoption of the minutes as printed in the
Pharmaceutical Journal for February.

The Chairman--I object to that, as part of them recorded there not true.
I refer to page 117 of the journal where it says: “The President rose to
a question of privilege referred to some statements made in the World
with regard to his connection with the Pearen matter.” I object to the
manner in which that is put in.

Mr. Lewis, Registrar, at the President’s request, read the minutes as
recorded in the minute book as follows:

     “The President arose to speak on a matter of privilege, and
     explained to the council the action he had taken in the matter of
     the attempt at alteration of the Register of Apprentices by J. M.
     Pearen, and read to the Council the letter in the World of February
     8th, and claimed the statements therein were not in accord with the
     facts, and he thought it was due to him that the Council should not
     allow them to be uncontradicted.”

Mr. Davidson--Then I infer that the report in the Journal with that
exception is correct?

The Chairman--As far as I know.

Mr. D’Avignon, seconded by Mr. Watters, moved that the minutes of last
meeting of the Council be accepted as read, the inference being that
they were read from the minutes and not from the Journal.

This was agreed to unanimously.

The Committee on Standing Committees reported as follows:--

Executive and Finance--Mackenzie, Petrie, Slaven, Hall, Hobart.

Education--Jeffrey, D’Avignon, Watters, Petrie, Slaven.

By-laws and Legislation--Hall, Hobart, D’Avignon, McKee, Lawrence.

Infringements--Mackenzie, Watters, Hobart, Lawrence and Saunders.

Mr. Mackenzie thought the whole Council should act on such an important
branch as the Infringement Committee, but Mr. Watters pointed out that
this was contrary to the constitution, which limited the number to five.

Mr. Hall and Mr. Hobart seemed to favour the amendment of Mr. Mackenzie,
stating that it was difficult to cover the districts in any other way
without the appointment of a private prosecutor or detective.

Mr. Jeffrey thought the Council should not undertake such work.

The President sustained the by-law, and ruled Mr. Mackenzie’s motion out
of order.

On the motion of Mr. Watters, seconded by Mr. Hall, the motion to
approve of the committees was carried unanimously.

The council then heard communications, accounts, notices of motion,
educational committee’s report, special committee’s report, regulations
for examiners and applications from apprentices, after which they
adjourned till Wednesday, at 10 o’clock, a.m., the business of
considering the reports being referred to the various committees.

Wednesday Morning.

The Council met at 10 o’clock, President John A. Clark in the chair.

The Chairman read some correspondence he had with Mr. E. R. Beckwith,
Secretary of the State Board of Pharmacy, at Petersburg, Virginia. He
(the Chairman) remarked that there had been a difference of opinion in
the Council regarding the Pharmacy laws. The desire of the writer was
that those who passed the examinations before competent Boards could
pass into and practise in any other State without re-examination, and
that the certificate of the Secretary should suffice. Seventy-five per
cent of marks were suggested as requisite. It was proposed to call a
convention of State delegates to arrange the matter, and that the vote
of two-thirds of those so assembled should be sufficient to give power
to act. He (the Chairman) wrote Mr. Beckwith on June 13, giving him the
names of colleges with whom the Ontario College interchanged
certificates, namely: the Philadelphia, New York, Chicago, Massachusetts
and California Colleges, and with the Board of Pharmacy of the City and
County of New York. As regards the scheme of interchange so far, the
States reported as follows: Delaware considered unadvisable; Tennessee,
yes; Nebraska does not favor; Pennsylvania, undesirable; North Carolina,
yes; Michigan and Minnesota, yes.

Mr. A. B. Petrie said that in many of the State Boards four or five men
met together and granted diplomas, while many of the colleges were
private enterprises. While the Ontario College was desirous to raise
the standard, a step of this kind might be injurious if not dangerous.

Mr. G. S. Hobart thought it would prove a benefit to go into the
arrangement as more young men crossed into the United States to practise
than came from the United States to this country.

On the motion of Mr. Andrew Jeffrey, seconded by Mr. H. Watters, the
following resolution was put and carried:

“That the communication of E. B. Beckwith, of Petersburg, Virginia,
referring to the holding of a convention of State and other Boards of
Pharmacy, be received, and the President of the Council be instructed to
watch the proceedings, and if he deems it in the interest of the College
he is hereby empowered to attend such convention.”

Mr. Lewis read the Registrar and Treasurer’s report as follows:--

     “I beg to report that since 1st February, 1889, the following
     medical practitioners have taken out registration:--Wm. Spencer
     Harrison, Brantford; James Switzer Freeborn, Lionshead; R. G.
     Montgomery, Forest River, Dakota; W. B. Nisbet, Angus; Alexander M.
     McFaul, Staynor; Richard Allan Clark, Ridgetown; D. C. Leitch,
     Dutton; George Veitch, Linwood; Declan E. Foley, Westport; John
     Cuthbertson Choffut, Keene; Francis Rorke, London; James McDiarmid,
     Hensall; Richard R. Hopkins, Grand Valley; Michael Jos. Keene,
     Brantford; Francois Xavier Balade, Ottawa; Wm. Alexander Munns,
     Thetford; Duncan McEdward, Thetford; Geo. Johnston Dickson,
     Desboro’.

     “The number of applications for registration has been 123, a small
     number of whom have been registered, the balance being kept in
     abeyance for the Council to deal with. The numbers of renewals
     issued since February 1st, 1889, were as follows: 1 for 1886, 3 for
     1887, 54 for 1888, and 551 for 1889, total 609. The register showed
     the members in arrears, 86 for 1888, 200 for 1889, as near as I can
     judge. The statement of receipts and disbursements showed balance
     on hand at the beginning of the year to have been $5,095.94;
     receipts, $3,865.23; disbursements, $5,546.81.”

On the motion of Mr. John McKee, seconded by Mr. J. H. Mackenzie, the
reports were received and referred to the Executive Committee.

On the motion of Mr. J. E. D’Avignon, seconded by Mr. H. Watters, a
committee, consisting of Messrs. Jeffrey and Mackenzie, were instructed
to take an inventory of the books and other belongings of the club, with
a view to insurance, which the Chairman remarked should be done without
delay.

On the motion of Mr. J. J. Hall, seconded by Mr. A. B. Petrie, the
Registrar was instructed to have a circular addressed to each man doing
business in the Province as a pharmaceutical chemist, inviting him to
comply with clause 10, sub-section 1 of section 31, being the recent
amendment to the Pharmacy Act passed March last.

Several members thought copies of the whole Act should be sent.

The resolution was passed.

The Chairman suggested that a solicitor should be consulted in the case
of E. M. Pearen who had been asked to be present that day at eleven, but
did not appear.

Mr. D’Avignon alleged that the charge against Mr. Pearen was alleged
forgery, and if that was so, that he should be prosecuted. The fact that
the register of apprentices had been altered would interfere with their
proper registration as druggists afterwards.

Mr. H. Watters--The question is, can we prove it?

The chairman said he concurred with Mr. D’Avignon when he said that a
lawyer should be consulted.

Mr Lewis was reluctant to tell the Council the exact facts, but said he
would inform a lawyer of the whole matter. He felt more annoyed that he
had been beaten, so to speak, by Mr. Pearen than from any other cause.

On the motion of Mr. H. Watters, seconded by Mr. J. E. D’Avignon, the
mover, with Messrs. Petrie and Lewis, were appointed to consult a
solicitor and report.

Mr. J. M. McKee moved, and J. W. Slaven seconded the following
resolution:--

     “That whereas the report of the Registrar-treasurer of February 16,
     1889, shows that the fees from students of this college for the
     past year have been $5,756, of which sum $4,378 by this statement
     is due to the professors, and only $1,378 retained by the College,
     according to agreement (See Sept. Journal, p. 23), which agreement
     we recommended be cancelled, and the Professors forthwith be
     notified by Registrar accordingly in view of the rapidly increasing
     revenue from students and the large amount of money paid out to the
     Professors, we believe we are warranted in readjusting the salaries
     so that each of the Professors be paid by the Executive of this
     College a definite sum according to work performed. Therefore, be
     it resolved, that the Educational, the Executive, and the Finance
     Committees do at once confer with the Principal and teaching staff,
     and endeavour to make satisfactory arrangements with regard to the
     same. Failing to meet this, or arrive at a satisfactory agreement,
     that they be further empowered to report as soon as possible upon
     some plan whereby such an arrangement can be effected.”

The mover pointed out that when the school first commenced the amount
received by the teachers was only $108. It had been gradually
increasing, and although not doubting the ability of the teachers he
thought each one only had a right to be paid for what he did. He did not
know, however, where they could find another college making so much
profit. Last year there had been a profit of $1,388, which the
matriculation fees had brought up to $1,600. It was a question whether
they could do so with reduced salaries. A cheaper staff might spread an
influence against the college.

Mr. A. B. Petrie said that in Philadelphia the scholars were certainly
attracted by the prestige of the professors, but in Canada they were
obliged to come to the college in any case.

Mr. J. E. D’Avignon pointed out that no one was obliged to come until
after the Act had been passed this year.

Mr. J. W. Slaven pointed out that the institution was now $14,000 in
debt.

The resolution was carried and the Council adjourned at noon.


Wednesday Afternoon.

The Council met at 3.25, Mr. John A. Clark in the chair.

Mr. Watters reported that along with Mr. Petrie he had been to the
office of Messrs. Edgar & Malone, barristers, and saw the former
regarding the case of Mr. Pearen. Mr. Edgar thought the correction made
in the books was necessary in the interests of the young men.

Mr. Watters, therefore, seconded by Mr. Petrie, moved the following
resolution:

     “Mr. Pearen not having complied with the request of this Council to
     appear before the Board to explain the irregularities with which
     his name has been associated, acting on legal advice it is deemed
     unadvisable to take any further action in the matter, and it is
     hereby resolved that no further action be taken.”

A communication from Messrs. Edgar and Malone, barristers, was filed
along with the resolution stating that in the action of Mr. Pearen, in
regard to the apprenticeship of Mr. John A. Dunbar, there was no
evidence to sustain an action against him under the Pharmacy Act, and
further, that such being the case, no action could be taken under
Section 20, looking to have his name erased from the register, and that
the firm thought it unwise to press matters against Mr. Pearen.

The resolution was carried.

Mr. A. D. Weeks, chemist, Uxbridge, handed in a letter and an
application on behalf of Mr. T. C. Nicholls, B.A., Uxbridge, claiming
clemency of the O.C.P. The Chairman, after Mr. Weeks had been heard,
told him that as was usual in such cases, the application would be
considered by a committee.

An application from John J. Watson, for time served in Hazelton was then
lodged and also remitted to the committee.

The following notice of motion was made: Moved by Mr. John J. Hall,
seconded by Mr. L. T. Lawrence,--

     “That the mover hereby gives notice of motion that he will be at
     the next semiannual meeting, bring in a by-law to carry out the
     provisions of sub-section 3 of section 1 of the amendments in the
     Pharmacy Act, passed March, 1887, providing for the holding of the
     elections to this Council by districts, and to amend No. 10 in
     accordance therewith.”

Mr. Slaven moved, and Mr. McKenzie seconded,--

     “That the reports of the Executive and Finance Committees be
     adopted. Accounts amounting to $56.35 were passed for payment.”

H. W. Watters moved, Wm. Lawrence seconded, the following resolution:--

(_Continued on page 10_)




SHOP-WINDOW CURES.


“If drugs and physic could but save us mortals from the dreary grave,”
the Registrar-General’s return of mortality would be reduced to _nil_.
For, in addition to the swarms of doctors, male and female, in London,
licensed to kill or cure, a vaunted remedy for almost every disease
flesh is heir to may be bought in nearly every street. Addison said of
doctors:--“This body of men may be described like the British army in
Cæsar’s time. Some of them slay in chariots and some on foot. If the
infantry do less execution than the charioteers, it is because they
cannot be carried so soon into all the quarters of the town and despatch
so much business in so short a time.”

But in our days the vendors of “certain cures” do their business much
more easily by staying at home and allowing customers to come to them.
They do not even trouble to emulate Cotgrave’s poor doctor of physic,
Pulsefeel, who was accustomed to harangue the public that he could
“clarifie your blood, surfle your cheeks, perfume your skin, tinct your
hair, enliven your eye, and heighten your appetite.” Doubtless vendors
of medicines, patent or not patented, find it a profitable business. For
one of the characteristics of the true-born Briton is an innate love of
physic. Often the most nauseous is esteemed the best, although it may be
admitted that the taste for nasty medicine is rather dying out. “To
quack of universal cures” has ever been a facile path to public
approbation and fortune. Brown wrote:--“Saltimbancoes, quacksalvers, and
charlatans deceive the vulgar;” and Burton said, “Many poor country
vicars, for want of means, are driven to their shifts to turn
mountebanks, quacksalvers and empyricks.” Civilization and progress,
instead of leading to a diminution of medicines not recognized in the
Pharmacopœia of the Royal College of Physicians, has resulted in an
opposite effect. For a number of maladies, or, perhaps, it should be
said, names of maladies, have been called into existence unknown to our
sturdy forefathers. For instance, we have half-a-dozen new designations
for what our great grandmothers would have called a “fit of the spleen.”
And for every new name which is devised by the ingenuity of nosologists
at least half-a-dozen remedies appear with mushroom rapidity. Even the
medical journals teem with advertisements of so-called remedies not
admitted into the Pharmacopœia. Bromidia, “the hynotic which does not
lock up the secretions;” elixir of cascara, “laxative, palatable,
reliable;” pumiline, “for bronchitis, throat and chest affections, fully
recognized by over 500 testimonials;” vinolia, “which will relieve the
intensest itching from any cause whatever;” liquor cascara suavis,
“registered,” are a few among many similar articles advertised in a
recent medical journal. Now when orthodox medical journals insert
advertisements of the kind they might with grace refrain from, as they
sometimes do, calling the lay press to account for the insertion of
advertisements of patent medicines. For to the lay mind there really
does not appear very much difference between the advertisement of
medicated bonbons, “protected by Royal letters patent,” in a medical
journal, and advertisements of a like character in a daily newspaper.

It is, however, of shop-window cures we now discourse. So profitable
does this branch of business seem to have become, that it has overflowed
its legitimate position in the chemist’s and druggist’s mart, and
invaded the premises of other tradespeople. Every vendor of sweets, and
many grocers, seems to find it profitable to have a special medical
agent for sale. In a climate such as this, where coughs, colds, throat
and chest affections so prevail, all who sell anything in the way of
medicines have certain cures for such prevalent maladies. The number of
so-called remedies is legion, and consists of pills, syrups, emulsions,
mixtures, tinctures, lotions and potions _ad nauseam_. But there is one
called “cough balsam,” unblushingly described as the “only known cure
for cough, asthma and consumption.” Now as cough may depend upon at
least fifty different causes, and as consumption kills thousands
annually, this must be a very wonderful medicine indeed, and doctors
should hide their diminished heads. It is really very stupid of people
to go on coughing when they can precure a remedy for a few pence; and
quite unnecessary for asthmatics or consumptives to go to the Riviera in
the winter when they have a remedy at home. So say the vendors of chest
affection cures. The giver of good advice rarely receives his due,
otherwise we might say “Don’t” to anyone disposed to trust these cures.

Corns and bunions demand a good deal of attention. There are many kinds
of corn plasters and several “miraculous cures,” which are all
“painless, simple and speedy,” and which secure “ease, comfort and good
temper.” One proprietor of a miraculous cure is so enthusiastic that he
breaks out into doggerel--

    If corn or bunion trouble you, of this you may be sure,
    That free from pain you soon will be by using ----’s cure.

After this the man who merely advertises a corn rubber is nowhere. We
were, however, under the impression that corns originated from pressure
or friction, and that the only radical cure was removing that pressure
or friction after the corn, if very large, had been taken out.
Toothache, being so common, has, of course, a number of cures. A
sufferer would dare a good deal to appease the hideous throes of
toothache, and when plaintively asked, “Why sutler from toothache when
you can cure it by using the toothache pencil?” would certainly try
this, that or the other remedy before facing the dentist. But, alas!
the dentist’s chair is the ultimate fate of the person with an aching
tooth, and he may be happy if on leaving the dentist he carries his
tooth--in his jaw--along with him. Nervous debility seems almost as
responsible as toothache or corns for certain cures. Among the hundreds
o’ medicines devoted to nervous debility there are “best brain tonics,”
“botanic pick-me-ups,” “golden medical discoveries,” “damiana wafers,”
and “syrups” of all kinds. Liver complaints and digestive imperfections
are also well supplied. “Candies” and “jujubes,” _cum multis aliis_, are
all very good for liver and digestion--at least so say the proprietors.
There is one advertiser who, having announced, “Remove the cause and the
effect will cease,” soars boldly above his compeers, and announces,
“Head, stomach and liver pills!” It is, however, in the domains of
surgery that shop-window cures are most pronounced. “Another leg saved!”
“Another hand saved!” “Another toe saved!” by a certain ointment and
pills is boldly announced. If all is correctly stated with reference to
this new ointment and pills, Professor Holloway is outdone. Cancers are
exhibited, diseased bone is shown, and corns are produced, all cured by
this wonderful ointment. Bills are also distributed purporting to be the
history of cures. One begins, “A boy threw a stone and hit him on the
finger over six years ago.” The remainder of the account may be
transferred into, “Affliction sore long time he bore, physicians were in
vain,” until he was cured by the pills and ointment. Now this was
evidently a case of scrofulous disease of the bones, always most
tedious, and recovery _post_ is not _propter_. We close the list by
mentioning first “Oriental pills.” Why they are called Oriental pills we
do not know, and what they are for we cannot ascertain. The name is
curious, for pills in the East, unless introduced by Europeans, are as
rare as snakes in Iceland. And, secondly, a cure for chilblains called
“Chimethloplastron!” What it means we do not know. And we do not take to
it--for the word does not come trippingly from the tongue like the
blessed Mesopotamia.

It has been said that faith in the doctor is half the battle.
Shop-window cures, however, require more than faith; they demand
credulity. Nothing catches a man more than a pretended confidence; and
of this among vendors of medicines, patent or not patented, there is no
lack. It is astonishing how one is able to persuade oneself into a
belief in accordance with one’s wishes. Barnum’s definition of a humbug
was, “A man who gives you your money’s worth, but induces you to deal
with him by some plausible tale connected with his goods.” Shakespeare
asked, “Can’st thou not cleanse the stuffed bosom of that perilous stuff
which bears upon the heart?” This is not to be done by nostrums, and
not always by doctors. Notwithstanding the vigorous declarations of
vendors of nostrums, they do not appear quite sure of themselves. For
the names of eminent medical men are freely used--among others, those of
Brodie, Blundell, Jenner, Clark. This recalls to mind an anecdote of the
Duke of Wellington and Dr. Locock. Meeting one day the Duke said,
“Confound you, Locock! I’ve almost poisoned myself by taking your
pulmonic wafers!” “Ah!” answered Locock, “and I have lamed myself by
wearing Wellington boots!”--_Globe in C. and D._




CANADIAN TARIFF CHANGES.


Alizarine, blood albumen, arseniate, bi-arseniate, chlorate and stannate
of soda, tannic acid, tartar emetic, chlorate of potash crystals, gum
gedda, gum barberry, grey tartar, fustic extract and quercitron or
extract of oak bark, when imported by the manufacturers of cotton and
woolen goods for use in their own factories only; and grey tartar,
fustic extract, and quercitron or extract of oak bark, for the
manufacture of colours, are admitted free of Customs duty until the end
of the next session of Parliament.

Sulphate of alumina and alum cake, used as a substitute for alum by
paper-makers, are placed on the list of articles that may be imported
into Canada free of Customs duty.

Sumac, when imported to be used for dyeing or tanning purposes, i.e.,
manufacturing purposes, not further manufactured than crushed or ground,
is placed on the list of articles that may be imported into Canada free.

Camwood, when imported to be used for dyeing or tanning purposes, i.e.,
manufacturing purposes, not further manufactured than crushed or ground,
is also placed on the list of free articles.




A HANDSOME DRUG STORE.


A thing of beauty is a joy forever, and we hope Mr. E. D. Martin, of
Ottawa, will long enjoy a successful business in the new premises he has
just removed to at the corner of Rideau and Cumberland Streets.

Mr. Martin is one of Ottawa’s most enterprising and successful druggists
and in the fitting up of his new store he has displayed great taste.

The front store is 50×30 and has two entrances and is lighted by three
large plate-glass windows; the ceiling is of polished wood, the floor of
granolithic tiles of mosaic pattern; the fixtures are walnut; the
counters, two in number, each eighteen feet long, are embellished with
show cases, and the handsome show cases on tables occupy positions in
the centre of the store. At the further end of the store standing in the
centre of an arch ten feet wide is a very fine dispensing case behind
which is the dispensing room fitted up with two sets of dispensing
scales and in duplicate all the appurtenances necessary for the carrying
on of this important part of his business, and though we did not see any
of Dr. Brown Sequard’s Elixir of Life, we can imagine the grim “Old
Reaper” giving his scythe an extra whet when he sees Mr. Bray, the
genial assistant, hand out a bottle of medicine to an invalid on whom he
has fixed his eye.

Adjoining the dispensing room is Mr. Martin’s private office where he
deliberates over his books--day, ledger, bank, and wants,--and we hope
the two last will always be in a state of congestion. It is here, too,
he has a vacant chair, not always vacant, however. I notice it is a
little worn already, for the ubiquitous traveller in search for orders
he always welcomes cordially, and as his trade is a large one, he
usually has the satisfaction of seeing a grateful smile suffuse the
countenance of that “noble Bohemian” as he wishes him good-bye.




ON TIME.


A want of punctuality is a fault in a business man that cannot be offset
by any other good qualities. It will be constantly causing serious loss
of time, money and temper to those who deal with him, and will naturally
lead them to look elsewhere for their supplies. Nothing short of an
utter impossibility should cause one to neglect the fulfilment of an
engagement, or to be behindhand in filling an order.

When the great warehouses of an extensive provision merchant were
smoking in ruins, he at once made out a circular and sent it to all who
were expecting orders filled, stating that a fire on the premises had
caused a delay, but that the next day they expected to dispatch all the
goods ordered. It required all the energies of a masterly mind to
accomplish the task, and all the hands he could bring to bear upon the
business, but it was done, and his many customers had the inconvenience
of but a day’s delay. It was a part of the man’s religion, as well as
his business science, to keep no one waiting. That was but one of his
many strong points, but they were all of the same reliable character. No
wonder he rose to a true and substantial greatness in his chosen line.
It is very hard turning over a new leaf in this particular, so it is a
good plan to begin right. Prompt, punctual boys are apt to make the same
kind of men, and vice versa.

You know that you “boys” are to be the future merchants of the land,
however small the chances seem for it now. “The posts of time run
swift,” and soon one and another will be dropping a line to this
department, telling of their small start in business on their own hook.
They will be sure of congratulations and good wishes all around, which
will be cheering and inspiring, and so far real help to the worker. The
habits he is forming while a clerk will, however, decide more than
anything else his future success or failure.

If one has fallen into careless, unmethodical habits in any of his
affairs, the only safe course is to “right about face.” The earlier, the
easier. Self-interest alone would prompt such a course as well as
honesty towards his employer.--[American Grocer.




NECESSITY FOR DISCRETION.


Though occasionally it might prove to be of value for the commercial
traveller to hint in an off-hand way that he has received orders from
other firms in the same town, still it would be the height of stupidity
to tell the fact right out, as many of the brotherhood are in the habit
of doing, that Mr. John Smith, for example, has to-day bought goods at
such or such a price, and mentioning all the particulars of the sale,
with the addition that the man solicited, if he will give the order,
shall get the same article at a much lower rate. Any one who has an eye
to business can in a moment see what this talk means. Besides, the
commercial traveller who adopts such mistaken measures in his attempt to
do business, will certainly lose the confidence of the man addressed,
for no sensible person can think otherwise than that the agent would say
exactly the same thing to a third and fourth customer as to the first
and second. Without doubt a customer has the right to feel sure that the
amount of his order and the price he paid for goods will not be made
known to any business competitor, and he certainly would be little
disposed to give his orders to an agent who shows a readiness to gossip
about the affairs of neighboring merchants.

The commercial traveller who is wise will either avoid talk about
purchases made of him in the place where he is doing business, or will
say very little, always avoiding in this case the mention of details.
And this even when questions are asked about them, for, though they may
be pleased for the moment at having their curiosity satisfied, people
will, as a rule, look with suspicion upon the imprudent discloser of
other people’s business, believing, and not unjustly, that such a man
would manifest the same willingness to reveal their secrets to others.
Discretion in business matters will probably have its reward in the
esteem of others, which readily develops into their confidence.

“Your Committee appointed to examine the claims of W. R. Austin and
others to apprenticeship registration under the Pharmacy Act of 1884,
recommends that their request be granted, and that all similar requests
addressed to the Registrar be similarly treated.”

Mr. A. Jeffrey moved, and Mr. McGregor seconded,--

“That in any case where the presence of the Executive or other members
of this Council is required in Toronto or elsewhere to attend upon the
work of the College, that they be paid their actual expenses out of the
funds of the College.”--Carried.

The Principal of the College sent a communication acknowledging receipt
of a quantity of apparatus and books from Henry Watters, Esq., Ottawa.
On the motion of Mr. J. J. Hall, seconded by Mr. Lawrence, Mr. Watters
was thanked for the donation.

The Council adjourned at 4.15 until 10 a.m. Thursday morning.


Thursday Morning.

The Council met at 10.30, Mr. John A. Clark in the chair.

A representative of the CANADIAN DRUGGIST, who was present, lodged with
the registrar an application on behalf of Mr. Dyas, proprietor of that
paper, for access to the various reports made at the semiannual meeting.
The chairman stated the request to the meeting, and after a brief
discussion the following resolution was, on the motion of Mr. A. B.
Petrie, seconded by Mr. McKee, unanimously passed:--

“That the request of Mr. Dyas, of the CANADIAN DRUGGIST, to be allowed
to obtain full reports of this meeting, be granted.”

The report of the By-laws and Legislation Committee was read, and, on
the motion of Mr. Hall, seconded by Mr. McGregor, they were received.

The meeting adjourned at 11.30, until three o’clock.


Thursday Afternoon.

The Council met at 3.45, Mr. John A. Clark in the chair. All were
present except Mr. G. S. Hobart. The Council went into committee of the
whole on the motion of Mr. Clark, seconded by Mr. McKee, on the report
of the By-laws and Legislation Committee, Mr. Lawrence in the chair.

On clause 1, Mr. Watters moved that the name of J. W. McEachern be
inserted as employer.--Agreed. Clauses 2 and 3, dealing with
applications, were passed without discussion. Clause 4 having been
reached, the chairman read several letters from George B. Dingman,
Buffalo, asking what had been done regarding his application for a
diploma. In his first try Mr. Dingman had been successful in all
subjects except dispensing, but had since passed in that subject. Mr.
Sanders, at whose request the correspondence was read, thought the
explanations made sufficient, and the clause was passed.

Discussion arose over clause 5, from the fact that the applicant, Mr. A.
W. Caton, admitted having been out of business since 1887. Mr.
D’Avignon thought Mr. Caton wanted to set his wife up in business, and
by saying that on paying up his arrears he would be admitted was
paramount to saying that his wife would not. The clause was passed.
Clauses 6 and 7 were passed. On clause 8 Registrar Lewis stated that
recently he had an application from an apprentice of Hargreaves Bros.,
of whom one member had not paid fees. Four dollars was still claimed for
one of their branches.

Mr. Sanders thought the precedent in McGregor & Parks’ case should not
rule.

It was explained that three of the Hargreaves had interest in one store
and only two in another, and when they made this application they had
three businesses.

After further discussion progress was reported, and, on the motion of
Mr. Hall, the report, as also the report of the Committee on By-laws,
was referred back for amendment. The following is the gist of the
reports as finally adopted:--

     “Your Committee on By-laws and Legislation make the following
     recommendations: (1) Referring to the two letters of A. L. Foster,
     of Ottawa, advise that the registrar be instructed to write him,
     that there being no evidence before the committee that the
     apprentice did indenture himself as stated it would be necessary
     for him to send affidavits, duly sworn to by the apprentice and his
     employer, Mr. J. W. McEachern, proving his cases, and that when
     received we feel disposed to comply with the request. (2) In the
     matter of Alfred Wilson, of Radcliffe Infirmary, and the
     corroborative letter of Richard Bremridge, we recommend the
     registrar be instructed to write to Mr. Wilson that if he can
     produce to this Council satisfactory evidence that he is a
     pharmaceutical chemist of Great Britain, he may register. (3) In
     the case of W. S. McClintock, of Galva, Ill., we advise that the
     registrar be instructed to write him that our by-laws prevent the
     Council recognising his claim for registration, as he has failed to
     pass on the subject of chemistry, and that at present there is no
     arrangement for exchange of diplomas with the State Board of
     Pharmacy of Illinois. (4) In the case of George B. Dingman, of
     Buffalo, we find by the evidence submitted to your committee that
     he is entitled to registration. (6) In the matter of A. W. Caton,
     Owassa, Mich., we recommend the registrar be instructed to write
     him that on payment of arrears due to this Council he may be
     registered. (6) We recommend that the registrar be instructed to
     notify Mr. Geo. M. Everist that his claim, made on behalf of R. E.
     Sinclair, cannot be recognised, as Dr. G. M. Eastern is not a
     registered pharmaceutical chemist. (7) The claim of Malcolm C. Rose
     of six months’ service with Mr. Hazelton cannot be entertained, as
     Mr. Rose’s apprenticeship contract was not registered. (8) In the
     matter of W. A. Hargreaves, of Toronto, your committee would
     recommend that the precedents established in similar cases are
     according to the Act, and that we cannot comply with Mr.
     Hargreaves’ request. (9) In the matter of J. H. Emery we are of
     opinion that his apprenticeship, served in New York State, under E.
     G. Watts, who is a regularly qualified pharmaceutical chemist of
     Ontario, though resident in New York State, will count in the same
     way as if served in Ontario. (10) We have examined the claims of
     Mr. J. C. Nicholls, largely based on the same grounds as others
     referred to in the report of the Education Committee of last
     February, and that like them Mr. Nicholls’ claim cannot be
     entertained. (11) We recommend the application of J. J. Watson, of
     Toronto, be granted, and that he be credited with the time from
     January 7 to August 13, 1888, served with Mr. J. C. Hazelton.

In concurrence with notice of motion served upon the Registrar and
members of the Council in accordance with by-law No. 20, we recommend
that the word “public” in by-law 3 in the sentence “act as public
prosecutor when so inserted by the chairman of the Infringement
Committee,” be struck out, as recommended by the Deputy Attorney General
in his letter of May 27. (2) That the phraseology of by-law 6 be changed
so as to read “Two auditors shall be elected by ballot by the Council,
said auditors shall not be members of the Council.” (3) That in by-law
13 we strike out the words “three years,” where they occur first in the
by-law, and insert in place thereof first the words “four years” and
after the words “pharmaceutical chemist” insert “and has attended two
courses of lectures first in any college of pharmacy or school of
medicine approved by the Council, the period occupied in attending these
first courses may be counted as part of the term of apprenticeship, and
the second or senior course at the Ontario College of Pharmacy such
course to comprise the following subjects, namely: Pharmacy, chemistry,
materia medica, botany and reading and dispensing of prescriptions, and
has attained the age of twenty-one years. This shall not apply to those
who are registered as apprentices prior to March 23rd, 1889. Such shall
only be required to produce a written contract as having served as an
apprentice for a term of three years.” (4) By-law 14 after the words
“charge for” add “engrossed.” (5) By-law 10. Regarding the advice in the
Deputy Attorney-General’s letter of May 27 we recommend that when by-law
10 is dealt with according to the notice of motion given at this
meeting, the advice therein contained will be acted upon. (6) By-law 12.
We advise that by-law 12 be cancelled, and that there be substituted
therefor the following: “All apprentices shall, before the term of their
contract commences, send to the Registrar of the college the sum of $1,
together with a specified form of certificate, signed by the Provincial
Inspector of Schools or by the head master of a high school or
collegiate institute or other evidence satisfactory to the Council
showing that the applicant has passed an examination in the following
subjects, namely:

     Arithmetic and Mensuration.--Reduction, Simple and Compound
     Proportion, Vulgar and Decimal Fractions, Square Root, Areas of
     Rectilineal Figures, Volumes of Right Parallelopipeds.

     Algebra.--Elementary Rules, Greatest Common Measure, Least Common
     Multiple, Fractions, Simple Equations of one Unknown Quantity.

     Political, Physical, and Mathematical Geography.

     English Grammar and Composition.

And at the same time shall also send to the Registrar a specified form
of certificate showing that the applicant has entered into a binding
contract with a registered pharmaceutical chemist to serve an
apprenticeship for a term of four years. This shall not apply to
apprentices who are registered prior to March 23rd, 1889. And the
foregoing requirements as to registration shall not apply to those who
commence their apprenticeship prior to March 25th, 1884, all of which is
respectfully submitted.

The report and amendments were adopted.

Mr. McKenzie read the report of the Infringements Committee, and moved
that it be received. Carried.

Mr. McKenzie, seconded by Mr. Hobart, moved its adoption.

Mr. Sanders made some objections, stating the work should be done
directly through the chairman.

Mr. McKenzie remarked that it was time the Council took decided action
in the matter as the country was well-nigh flooded with illegal
business.

The motion was carried.

Following is the report: “Your committee believe that it is time that
action should be taken by this Board to have the Pharmacy Act more
strictly enforced, and we are of opinion that the detective system is by
far the best possible way to reach the offenders. A division of the
Province into districts will materially assist your committee in
reaching many of the offenders, and in view of that we would advise that
the registrar in future refer all complaints of infringements to the
nearest representative of the district on this Council; and if he is
satisfied that such complaint is well founded, he shall at once
communicate such fact to the registrar, who shall at once notify the
chairman of this committee, who shall have power to pay over to said
detective a part of the fine accruing to the College; and that the sum
of $200 be placed to the credit of the chairman of the committee,
subject to his order, of which an account shall be rendered at each
semiannual meeting of this Council. We recommend the rescinding of all
former Acts of this Council conflicting with this report.”

       *       *       *       *       *

The election of scrutineers was the next business. It was moved by Mr.
Petrie, seconded by Mr. Mackenzie, That Messrs. McGann and Murchison be
appointed. It was agreed that the President cast his ballot on this
election, and the above named gentlemen were accordingly elected.

Mr. Jeffrey was appointed to fix the seal of the College in the absence
of the Chairman and Vice-President to all documents requiring the same.

On the motion of Mr. G. S. Hobart, seconded by Mr. McGregor, this
resolution was passed,--

“That the registrar be instructed to have printed 2,000 copies of the
Pharmacy Act as amended to date, in form and size similar to those in
the Poison Books, and that a copy be sent to each druggist in the
Province.”

Moved by Mr. D’Avignon, seconded by Mr. Sanders,--

“That Messrs. Jeffrey and Mackenzie be appointed to act in conjunction
with the President and Vice-President under By-law 5.”

This clause relates to the transfer of stock or debentures.

The Council adjourned at 5.15 p. m.

Friday Morning.

The Council met at 11.20, Mr. Clark again in the chair.

Mr. J. W. Slaven read the report of the Joint Special Committee composed
of the Executive, Finance and Educational Committees, which was adopted.
From this report it appeared that the Council have at last succeeded in
settling the very difficult question of the Professors’ salaries. Under
an arrangement entered into in 1886, the Professors have been paid
according to the attendance at the College. Under the arrangement
effected, each Professor will be paid a definite salary in proportion to
the work he does, which it is expected to be a considerable saving to
the College, thereby placing the Council in a position to deal with the
debt upon the building. The report was adopted.

Moved by J. McKee, and seconded by J. H. Mackenzie,--

“That Mr. F. T. Harrison be appointed by this Council as the
demonstrator of practical work as per report of your Committee.”

Carried.

Messrs. Watt and John C. Laidlaw were elected auditors of the Council.

It was agreed to give Dr. Slaven a new diploma, his old one having been
lost by fire.

The Council adjourned at 11.40 till 2.30.

Friday Afternoon.

The Council met at 3.5, Mr. Clark in the chair. Mr. Jeffrey read the
report of the Education Committee, and having been seconded by Mr.
Watters, moved its adoption.

Following is a summary of the report,--

     “The Principal of the School reports 68 junior and 63 senior
     students at last term. The fees received amounted to $5,776. The
     general conduct of the students was in all respects satisfactory.
     The results of last examination show proficiency fully up to the
     standard.

     “In submitting rules for the guidance of examiners the Committee,
     among other alterations, suggested that the dispensing clause be
     altered to the following: The dispensing of five prescriptions with
     neatness, accuracy and despatch, labelling and furnishing medicine
     as if designed for patients, the order in which candidates
     dispensing desk is left and the cleanliness of utensils to be
     rated.”

The report was adopted.

The report of the Committee re the Duties of the Board of Examiners was
also read. It contained the following:

     “We recommend the appointment of the following gentlemen as
     examiners for the ensuing two years: Prescriptions, A. R. Fraser;
     chemistry, B. Jackes; botany, C. R. Sneath; pharmacy, Frank Holman;
     materia medica, D. S. Sager; dispensing, Wm. Murchison. We think,
     in view of the increased work devolving upon the examiners, their
     remuneration should be increased, and advise that each examiner
     shall receive, as addition to his present remuneration, a further
     sum of 50 cents for each student exceeding the number of 50, who
     shall be examined by him. We deem it advisable that By-law 13 be
     amended by erasing the words ‘Professors of the College shall be
     ex-officio members of the Board of Examiners, and shall act as
     advisers,’ and that the latter clause of By-law 13 reading
     ‘Questions asked by examiners shall be published, and approximate
     rating of the answers may be furnished to candidates, their
     parents, employers or teachers,’ be struck out.”

Mr. Sanders suggested that the report be taken up clause by clause. He
explained that a great difficulty experienced by the students was the
fact that the number of marks in subjects in which they failed was not
made known to them as in the subjects in which they were successful. The
Council had set up a standard which was a high one, and did not give an
opportunity to students of knowing to what extent they were deficient.
All the marks, he thought, should be published.

The report was adopted after a brief discussion.

The report of the Board of Examiners, containing the following, was also
approved.

     “The number of candidates who presented themselves for examination
     was 103. Of these 66 entered for all the subjects, 37 for those
     subjects in which they had previously failed. With an experience of
     an examination conducted under your proposed rules and regulations,
     and more especially under that clause requiring that the written
     part of the work of the examination be examined and completed in
     the College building and before the examiners separate, we still
     feel this work can be better and more satisfactorily done at home,
     and would ask and suggest that such be allowed, and that the
     examiners be allowed a week in which to return the papers to the
     registrar; that a meeting of the Board be held before the final
     result is published, as we understand this is the usual method
     pursued by the examiners of the Medical College; that the
     regulation regarding the number and value of written questions be
     changed so as to read as formerly, and as appeared in the Journal,
     namely, that the written questions be not more than four-fifths,
     either in number or value, more especially in the subject of
     prescriptions, when the value of the oral examination bears
     directly on the ability of the candidate, and could profitably and
     justly be enlarged to at least 50 per cent in value.”

Mr. Andrew Jeffrey gave the following notice of motion for amendment of
By-law 12 to erase the following: “The professors of the College shall
be ex-officio members of the Board of Examiners, and shall act as
advisers, and that the latter clause of By-law 13, reading ‘The
questions asked at the examinations shall be published, and approximate
rating of the answers may be furnished to candidates, their parents,
employers, or teachers,’ be struck out.”

On the motion of Mr. Watters the meeting adjourned at 3.45, to meet at 2
p.m. on the first Tuesday in February, 1890.




THE LONDON DRUG CO.

LONDON, ONTARIO.

J. DOUGLAS, Manager

IMPORTERS OF

Drugs and Druggists’ Sundries, Fine
Chemicals, Perfumery, and all Goods
required by Chemists.

MANUFACTURERS OF

Fluid Extracts, and Fine Pharmaceutical
Preparations,
Citrate of Magnesia, Etc.

We beg to intimate to the trade, and particularly to those who are
commencing business on their own account, that we keep IN STOCK every
requirement of a first-class Chemist and Druggist.

We carry full and complete sets of

LABELLED SHELF WARE
        DRAWER PULLS
    SHOW BOTTLES and VASES
          SCALES, WEIGHTS, Etc.

and everything necessary for the executing of an opening order on the
shortest notice.

Correspondence in regard to Prices, Terms, etc. solicited.




MERCK’S PURE PEPSINE IN SCALES

We have taken a great deal of trouble to put before our friends and the
Trade the excellent character of this preparation. It is offered at a
reasonable price, and dispensing chemists should put before their
Medical friends its well-known merits. It possesses high digestive
powers, is perfectly solvent, and keeps well. We have it in 1 lb., ½ lb.
and 1 oz. bottles.

                    The London Drug Co.,--Importers

                             LONDON, ONT.




PUT YOURSELF IN HIS PLACE.


It is always in order to talk about the deportment of clerks towards
customers, says Geyer’s Stationer. Almost every person one meets has a
theory on the subject which, on investigation, will be found more or
less tinctured with selfishness. Admitting that clerks are not always as
affable as they should be, it is just as true, on the other hand, that
customers are often at fault in manners, and too frequently excite
similar shortcomings in those who are serving them for the time being.
Still, in the world of clerks, patience should never cease to be a
virtue, and a good salesman or saleswoman will never show a ruffled
temper even under the most trying circumstances. Next to affable manners
a cool head is of vital importance, for who likes to deal with fussy,
confused people, and when rapid work is necessary, as at the busy season
in large retail stores, the man or woman with a rather short supply of
nerves will generally come out ahead.

Alertness and promptness are conceded requisites and obligingness a
positive essential. But the faculty most valuable in a salesman is that
of reading character, and if it is backed by ready adaptability and a
mind sufficiently well informed to cater mildly to discoverable
idiosyncrasies, so much the better.

A salesman’s business is, of course, to sell goods, but it is equally
his duty to make the store a pleasant place for customers; and above
all, to make them carry away a feeling of perfect satisfaction with the
business they have transacted. This can be done without giving
overweight or over-measurement, which are nothing less than a betrayal
of trust, and as reprehensible as giving short weight and measure, the
odium of which must, in the nature of things, fall upon the employer.

“Put yourself in his place” is an excellent guide to practice. A clerk
who considers what qualities and qualifications he would like in
employees were he, himself, an employer of men, and governs his conduct
accordingly, will not stray far from the right course. An employer who
can, in fancy, put himself behind the counter and view himself from the
clerk’s standpoint, will be vastly wiser and more successful in his
management, and customers who can imagine themselves in the salesman’s
place, and can comprehend the thousand and one trials they are subjected
to by careless and indifferent humanity, will, if they choose, be able
to save both themselves and the clerks an infinite amount of wear and
tear of nerve force, and at the same time, receive vastly more
satisfactory service.

       *       *       *       *       *

An English syndicate has subscribed $10,000,000 to establish extensive
iron and steel works at Vallejo, Cal.




DRUG NOTES.


We would call the attention of druggists to the advertisement of Major’s
Cement in our advertising columns. Major’s Cement has a deservedly
increasing sale in the United States and is now extensively sold
throughout the Dominion. Mr. Major is now giving away to druggists a
handsome thermometer 24 inches long with orders for his goods. These
cannot help of themselves to be quite an attraction and aid to business,
and we would advise our subscribers to write A. Major, 232 William St.,
New York, mentioning the CANADIAN DRUGGIST, for prices and terms.

The Stillman Remedies Company, of 58 West 55th St., New York, have
opened a Canadian agency for the sale of their celebrated Garfield Tea
at 28 Yonge St. Arcade, Toronto, Ont. The trade will be supplied with
free sample packages and advertising matter by writing to D. Densmore &
Co., 28 Yonge St. Arcade, Toronto, and mentioning the CANADIAN DRUGGIST.

“You dirty boy” appears in our advertising columns this week. The sale
of Pears’ Soaps is now something enormous, and the proprietors are
spending their thousands in bringing and keeping them before the public.
No druggist’s stock is complete without a full assortment of these
goods. J. Palmer & Son, of Montreal, are the Canadian agents for Pears’
Soaps and carry a complete stock of them, together with a large variety
of druggist’s sundries, toilet goods, sponges, etc.

Smith & McGlashan’s travellers are now on the road with samples of
holiday goods in all materials and designs. An inspection of their
samples will satisfy you as to the excellency of their goods.

We would draw the attention of the trade to Lyman, Knox & Co.’s
advertisement (on the inside of cover opposite first page) of some of
their specialties. This young and enterprising firm have made a place
for themselves in the front rank of the trade, and we are pleased to say
that they deserve the confidence and popularity so quickly gained.

The demand for Wilson’s Fly Poison Pads has been larger this year than
ever before. This well-known article kills flies in large quantities,
lasts a long time, comes in a very convenient and safe form, sells at
sight, and pays the druggist a large profit. The trade should push it in
their own interests.

       *       *       *       *       *

A. B. Petrie, Guelph, is spending the summer on his island in Muskoka.




[Illustration: Correspondence]


     _Short, timely articles upon subjects of interest to pharmacists
     are solicited for this department. In order to be in time for
     publication in the issue of a given month, they should be in the
     editor’s hands on the third day of the month._

     _Always send your proper name and address: we do not publish them
     unless you wish: if you do not, please use a distinctive
     nom-de-plume._

     _Write on one side of the paper only; and devote a separate piece
     of paper to each query if you ask more than one, or if you are
     writing about other matters at the same time._




RUNNING THE DRUG BUSINESS INTO THE GROUND.


Editor CANADIAN DRUGGIST:

     DEAR SIR.--It has come to my knowledge that a druggist doing a
     large business in Ontario supplies a physician with his medicines
     at so much per year, the sum fixed being the average of three
     previous years to making this bargain. I am anxious to get hold of
     a shoemaker, baker, grocer or drygoods merchant who will supply my
     family on that basis. Of course my family is on the increase, but
     that is all right for me. What can an association do in a case of
     this kind.

A MEMBER OF AN ASSOCIATION.






SELLING AT COST.


Editor CANADIAN DRUGGIST:

     DEAR SIR.--What is meant when a druggist says I am selling at cost.
     Does he mean that he sells at invoice price or does he add rent,
     taxes, insurance, printing, freight, breakage, waste, tickets to
     shows, public subscriptions, required by being in business, (not
     charity) salaries, including a fair salary for himself, a small
     amount for sundries, also interest on capital invested, making in
     all from 18 to 25 per cent. on the invoice price of all goods. That
     is, an article costs in the wholesale house $1. Its cost price when
     handed to customer is $1.20. Would like to hear how others figure
     this up and if my cost is too high, and if I must reduce expenses.
     Yours very truly,

DRUGGIST.



       *       *       *       *       *

A correspondent, writing from Herrington, Kansas, sends the following
prescription recently filled by him. We are assured by a local
connoisseur that the mixture is considered as “powerful good for
snakes,” when spiritus frumenti can be obtained:

    One ounce of hors horn,
    one Ounce Alker Hall one
    onse sweate Owl A smale
    Lump Of cam For Gum.--[Nat. Druggist.




DISCRETION.


Who can do business without advertising? In this advanced age, when
competition is so great, he that runs the race without advertising
eventually gets left. It is considered one of the most important
branches of a business man’s education to know how to advertise
judiciously, and to do it so as to attract attention, and place it where
it will do the most good. It is looked upon as much a part of contingent
expenses as rent, insurance, etc. A certain percentage out of the
profits of each year should be decided on to be expended for the next
year’s business, and the sum increased in proportion to the increase of
business. To do business, a business must be advertised.--[Manufacturer.




HOW TO BUY.


“How can I buy best?” is a question that agitates more than one mind in
the commercial world, and one that very seldom is solved to the perfect
satisfaction of the querist. I propose to go into some of the phenomena
of the art of buying in this issue and, if possible, portray some of the
obstacles in the way of the non-successful purchaser. There are two
prominent classes of successful buyers, which are subdivided into many,
but I intend to treat of these two only at this time, first among these,
and the most favoured is the one who has intimate knowledge of that
which he intends to buy, and who is thoroughly informed as to the best
goods to purchase; the prices; where they are from, etc. The second best
buyer is he who makes a great plunge among those from whom he intends
purchasing and endeavours to impress them with his importance as a
buyer, and his pretended knowledge of the subject on hand. This last
fellow is styled the bulldozer. As to which one of these two classes of
persons buy the closest and best there can be no dispute, the person of
knowledge is free and unfettered because he is on an equal or superior
footing to him from whom he intends buying, inasmuch as his information
gives him the necessary leverage. The second is in the power of the
seller because if a misstatement of fact is made, the purchaser is at a
disadvantage in not knowing whether it is fact or not, and he has to
rely upon his powers of depreciation and arraignment of the goods to
carry him to success.

I remember once being in a merchant’s store and his tactics and manners
on that occasion created the impression, which has lasted up to the
present time, that he was the best buyer, or at least one of the best, I
ever met. I will tell you what he did and you can then see for yourself.
I walked in and awaited my turn; as soon as he was at leisure he came to
me, and telling me his name, asked me if I wished to see him personally.
I answered him I wished his attention, and told him my business. He
said he was exceedingly busy and would like me to call again. I
specially requested his time for a short space, and he gave me five
minutes. I pulled out my watch and taking it off the chain laid it upon
the counter, open. I commenced to tell him about my goods, and as fast
as I could, dealt out the points respecting them. As the minute hand
crossed the point, and my time expired, I was in the middle of a
sentence, but I stopped abruptly and informed him “time was up.” He said
he was sorry he could not grant me a longer interview as he had an
engagement “but” said he, “I am interested in the information you have
imparted, and I want you to come and see me when I have time to listen.”
I promised I would, and did so. I went into all the details. I gave him
all the knowledge I had amassed by months of study of that one object,
and when I left him it was with a feeling of satisfaction that I had
been partly repaid for my labour in informing myself of the subject, and
that man at least knew enough to buy of that commodity intelligently.

The great difficulty in the way of most merchants becoming good buyers
is because they are not satisfied to expend from three to five minutes
with a salesman when he comes into their stores in finding out his
prices, goods, etc., so that when the next one comes along if his prices
are below he can take advantage of it, but at any rate, I would suggest
the following to all merchants: Treat the salesman coming to your store
with courtesy, politeness, and consideration, and you may be sure you
will receive in return information that will repay you for the
expenditure. I am sorry to say a great many business men forget that a
compliment to their credit is paid to them when a man enters their
stores to solicit their trade. Then remember the “goods well bought are
half sold.”--[Review.




[Illustration]




To the Trade.


JUST RECEIVED

A FRESH SUPPLY

Carlsbad Sprudel Salts

Small, per dozen, $7.00.      Large, per dozen, $14.00.

Carlsbad Sprudel Waters

Per case of 50 bottles, $15.00.      Per dozen, $4.00.

Æsculap Water

Per case of 25 bottles, $12.00      Per dozen, $6.50.


Davis & Lawrence Co., Ltd., Montreal

SOLE AGENTS FOR CANADA.

[Illustration]




FILL ORDERS PROMPTLY.


I was chatting a few days ago with a downtown stationer on the subject
of filling orders. Strange as it may appear, this merchant held the
opinion that the most pernicious, if not the most damaging, habit in
daily business was the lack of promptness in supplying what was ordered.
“To secure an order,” said he, “some men will promise anything and
everything. You may ask as a favor to have your order filled on the day
agreed upon, and he will promise faithfully that it shall be done. You
then make your arrangements and find that you cannot execute them. The
worst of it is that some of the men who make these promises are of
business repute. They mean well, no doubt, but I contend that they
should show more regard for their word and respect for other people’s
business.”

These are somewhat severe words, yet they are probably warranted,
although the breach of faith complained of is not common. Business men,
as a rule, while anxious to obtain an order, are equally as anxious to
fill it, for the very obvious reason that the motive governing them in
the one case is the same which governs them in the other. The truth is
that in these competitive times everyone is desirous of doing all he
can, and hence he accepts orders with the belief that, barring accidents
or other unforeseen circumstances, he will be able to redeem his
promise. Of course the wilful promise breaker and his business, too,
regulate themselves, for if a man’s word is not to be generally trusted,
depend upon it his goods will not find a very extensive patronage for
any length of time.--[Stationer.




A PRACTICAL SYSTEM.


Some business men do a vast amount of work without any apparent effort;
they are rarely, if ever, rushed, and are seldom compelled to seclude
themselves from their friends on account of the pressing demands of
their business. Other people, who really accomplish very little, are
always in a hurry; they seem to have a dozen things to do at once, and
the result is, they are in a state of almost perpetual confusion, and
the little they accomplish is only done by the greatest difficulty. In a
very small country store perhaps a merchant can get along without any
system or method in conducting his business. He knows where everything
is in his stock, and can lay his hands on it at a moment’s notice, and
if a customer calls for it he can serve him without any very great
amount of trouble; but, on the other hand, if he is at the head of a
vast business, some great establishment, perhaps, in which there are a
hundred departments, it would be utterly impossible for him to keep
track of things without the most methodical arrangement throughout the
concern with which he is connected. Our great merchant leaves the
details of his business to subordinates, who are accountable to him that
everything goes right in the departments over which they are placed.
Some of the great establishments in our city employ thousands of men,
yet so perfect is the system that every man can be located at a moment’s
notice, and the closest watch can be kept upon the work which he is
doing. There is a system for receiving and shipping goods, a system for
keeping track of stock while in the hands of the producer or dealer;
there is a cash system, a system of bookkeeping by which a mistake of a
penny can be detected at the close of every day’s business. It is only
by these wise and sensible precautions that a great business can be
carried on successfully. Thousands of losses, little and great, are
averted that would certainly occur did not this watchfulness prevail in
every department.

A writer in the Detroit Free Press said not long ago that “there are
some occupations which compel those who follow them to be orderly and
methodical. There are none in which these qualities, where they have
been neglected, can not be cultivated to good advantage. Deficiency in
them is far from being a token of genius. It signifies something of
indolence and much that is slipshod. Every man knows whether or not he
is as orderly and methodical as he should be. If he is not, unless he is
too old to attempt the task, he should endeavour to improve in these
respects. There is no danger of his carrying it to that excess which
marks persons who have a passionate love of order, but there is a
likelihood that he will materially lighten his work, or find that he can
do much more than he has been in the habit of doing.”

It seems to the Criterion that this is the keynote of a business man’s
success. No man who conducts his business in a slipshod manner can
expect to achieve desirable results. He should determine to be orderly
and methodical at the very commencement of his career. Order soon
becomes a habit with a business man, and by its observance he is enabled
to do a hundred things that it would be impossible to accomplish if he
did not go at them in the handiest and most effective manner.--[Grocers’
Criterion.




BRAINS IN BUSINESS.


One secret of success in business--the secret, in fact, of success on a
large scale--is to conceive of it as a matter of principles, not merely
as a series of transactions. There are great merchants as there are
great statesmen, and there are small merchants as there are small
politicians, and the difference is very much the same in both
professions. The small politician works by the day, and sees only the
one small opportunity before him, the small merchant does the same
thing--he is looking for the next dollar. The statesman, on the other
hand, is master of the situation, because he understands the general
principles which control events; this knowledge enables him to deal with
large questions and to shape the future. The great merchant does the
same thing, his business is not a mere money-getting affair, not a mere
matter of barter, but a science and an art; he studies the general laws
of trade, watches the general condition of the country, investigates
present needs, foresees future wants, and adapts his business to the
broad conditions of time and place. He puts as much brains into his work
as does the statesman, and he ends by being not a money getter, but a
large minded and capable man. An eminently successful business man, of
statesmanlike quality, said the other day that the more he understood of
life the more clearly he saw that it was all done on business
principles. By which he meant, not only that the universe stands for the
dollar, but that the universe is governed by unvarying laws, that
promptness, exactness, thoroughness and honesty are wrought into its
very fibre. On these business principles all life is conducted, if not
by men, at least by that power which is behind man. It ought to be the
ambition of every young man to treat his business from the point of the
statesman, and not from that of the politician.




DRUG MARKET REVIEW.


August 10, 1889.

Business for summer months has kept up very well, and for the past month
there have been no notable changes in value.

Quinine is dull; there is a strong impression that quinine will not be
any lower; an upward move seems probable.

Morphia and Opium, slightly advanced.

In Camphor there is a large demand and a further advance probable.

We were in error regarding duty being taken off tannic acid, it is only
free when imported by manufacturers for manufacturing purposes.

Cubebs are dear and scarce, supplies are smaller every year.

Cascara Sagrada has gone back to old prices.

Pot Iodide and Bromide are unchanged.

Fair demand for Insect Powder: prices unchanged.

Mercurials are all higher.

Oil Anise will probably be higher as the bulk of it has passed into the
hands of three holders. The basis of the speculative movement is owing
to the probability of a stoppage of the shipment owing to a disagreement
between the producers in China and the importers here.

Balsam Copaiba will probably be lower; the high price was caused by the
crop last year not being marketed by the South American natives. The
result was high prices which stimulated the natives to great activity in
gathering and forwarding the balsam, and stocks have accumulated
rapidly, so that at present there are 40,000 lbs. in first hands in
European markets.

Golden Seal Root is unsettled and the tendency is to higher prices.
Senega is in about the same position. Serpentaria continues to advance.

Coca Leaves reported advanced.

Caffeine and Salts are cheaper.

Glycerine unchanged, but there has been a sharp advance in crude.

In Gallic and Tannic Acids the reports of short crops from China are
confirmed. Galls have gone up 10 to 15 per cent., and we may soon have
to ask more money for Gallic and Tannic acids.

In Sulphonal the extremely keen competition between the eight or ten
manufacturers has resulted in a decline in price. As things are it seems
advisable to order only for immediate wants.

Oil Sassafras is likely to be dearer.

Opium, cuttlebone, quicksilver, anise oil, golden seal root, senega
root, serpentaria root, shellacs, star anise, cassia, cloves, allspice
have advanced.

       *       *       *       *       *

D. S. Sage, Brantford, is doing the Continent. Mr. Charles Miller is
looking after his business.

C. H. Moderwell, formerly of Stratford, now with Caswell, Massey & Co.,
New York, was visiting old friends in Stratford and vicinity.




[Illustration]

WILSON’S FLY POISON PADS.

[Illustration]


If there is a Druggist in Canada who is not selling them we say to him,
You are losing money every day, you are losing opportunities of selling
your customers goods which will give complete satisfaction, and bring
them back to your store.

No other Fly Poison has ever had the same sale in Canada, or given the
same satisfaction.

PRICE PER BOX OF 50 PACKETS,

$2.50, OR THREE BOXES FOR $7.00.

RETAIL PRICE, 10 CENTS.


ARCHDALE WILSON & CO.

WHOLESALE DRUGGISTS,      HAMILTON, ONT.


CANADIAN DRUGGIST PRICES CURRENT.

CORRECTED TO AUGUST 10, 1889.




     The quotations given represent average prices for quantities
     usually purchased by Retail Dealers. Larger parcels may be obtained
     at lower figures, but quantities smaller than those named will
     command an advance.


  ACID, Acetic                            lb.  $  12½  $     15
    Arsenic                                “      26         27
    Benzoic, English, (from benzoin,)     oz.     25         30
    Boric                                 lb.     25         30
    Carbolic, Crystals, super              “    1 35       2 15
    Commercial                             “      50         70
    Citric                                 “      65         70
    Gallic                                 “    1 45       1 80
    Hydrocyanic                           oz.     10         12½
    Hydrobromic, dil.                      “      30         45
    Lactic, concentrated                  lb.   3 50       4 00
    Muriatic                               “       3¼         6
      chem. pure                           “      20         22
    Nitric                                 “      11         18
      chem. pure                           “      25         30
    Oxalic                                 “      13         14
    Phosphoric, glacial                    “    1 55       1 90
      dilute                               “      17         25
    Salicylic                              “    2 00       2 50
    Sulphuric                              “       2½         5
      chem. pure                           “      19         22
      Aromatic                             “      50         60
    Tannic                                 “    1 10       1 40
    Tartaric, powdered                     “      50         55
  ALCOHOL, pure, 65 o. p. by bbl.,
      net                                 gal.  3 28
      By gal                               “    3 60
  ALLSPICE                                lb.     13         15
    Powdered                               “                 20
  ALUM                                     “       2¼         3
  AMMONIA, liquor, 880                     “      13         18
    Aromatic Spirits                       “      40         45
    Bromide                                “      75         80
    Carbonate                              “      12         15
    Iodide                                oz.     50         60
    Muriate                               lb.     12         14
  ANNATTO                                  “      30         35
  ANTIMONY, black, powdered                “      13         15
      and potas, tart                      “      55         60
  ARROWROOT, Bermuda                       “      45         50
      Jamaica                              “      14         32
  ARSENIC, Donovan’s solution              “      30         33
    Fowler’s solution                      “      12½        15
    White                                  “       6½         8
  BALSAM, Canada                           “      45         50
    Copaiva                                “    1 00       1 10
    Peru                                   “    2 50       2 75
    Tolu                                   “      65         70
  BARK, Bayberry, powdered                lb.     18         20
    Canella Alba                           “      13         10
    Cassia                                 “      18         22
      Ground                               “      25         30
    Cinchona, red                          “      50       2 40
      Powdered                             “      60       2 50
    Calisaya, yellow                       “    1 00       1 40
      Pale                                 “      90       1 00
      Rub.                                 “      50       1 00
    Elm, selected                          “      15         18
      Ground                               “      18         20
      Flour, packets                       “      28         30
    Orange Peel, bitter                    “      16         70
    Soap, Quillaya                         “      14         18
    Sassafras                              “      12         15
    Wild Cherry                            “      10         12
  BEAN, Tonka                              “               2 50
    Vanilla                                “    7 00       9 00
  BERRY, Cubeb                             “    2 50       2 75
    Powdered                               “    2 60       2 80
    Juniper                                “   13            15
  BISMUTH, sub-carbonate                   “    3 00       3 10
    Sub-nitrate                            “    2 50       2 60
    Liquor                                 “      35         40
  BORAX                                    “      12         13
    Powdered                               “      13         15
  BUTTER, Cacao                            “      75         80
  CAMPHOR, English                         “      52         55
    American                               “      45         47
  CANTHARIDES                              “    2 00       2 25
    Powdered                               “    2 10       2 25
  CAPSICUM                                 “      25         32
    Powdered                               “      30         40
  CARBON, bisulphide                       “      17         20
  CHALK, French, powdered                  “       6         10
    Precipitated                           “      10         12
    Prepared                               “       5          6
  CHLOROFORM, pure                         “    1 10       1 20
    D. & F.                                “    1 75       1 90
    German                                 “      65         75
  CHLORAL, hydrate                         “    1 35       1 60
  CINCHONINE, muriate                     oz.     15         20
    Sulphate                               “      20         25
  CINCHONIDIA, sulphate                    “      15         25
  CLOVES                                  lb.     35         40
    Powdered                               “      40         43
  COCHINEAL, S. G.                         “      40         45
  COCAINE, mur.                           oz.   6 00       7 00
  COLLODION                               lb.     75         90
  CONFECTION, senna                        “      25         50
  COPPER, sulphate                         “       8          9
  COPPERAS                                 “       1½         2½
  CREAM TARTAR, powdered                   “      30         32
  CREOSOTE, wood                           “    2 00       2 30
  CUDBEAR                                  “      18         30
  CUTTLE-FISH BONE                        lb.  $0 30      $0 35
  DEXTRIN                                  “      10         12
  EPSOM SALTS                             bbl.     1½         2
  ERGOT                                   lb.     75       1 00
  ETHER, acetic                            “      75         80
    Nitrous, spirits                       “      50         55
    Sulphuric, 720                         “      35         75
  EXTRACT, Belladonna                      “    1 75       3 25
    Colocynth, Co.                         “    1 25       1 75
    Gentian                                “      50         60
    Hemlock, Ang.                          “    1 00       1 10
    Henbane   “                            “    2 75       3 00
    Jalap                                  “    2 50       3 00
    Logwood, bulk                          “      13         15
       “  packages                         “      15         18
    Mandrake                               “    1 75       2 00
    Nux Vomic                             oz.     20         30
    Opium                                  “      75         80
    Rhubarb                               lb.   4 00       5 00
    Sarsa. Hond. Co.                       “    1 00       1 20
      “  Jam Co.                           “    3 00       3 35
    Taraxacum, Ang.                        “      70         80
  FLOWERS, arnica                          “      22         25
    Chamomile                              “      40         45
  FLOWERS, Lavender                        “       7         12
    Rose, red, French                      “    2 40       2 60
  GALLS, powdered                          “      25         30
  GELATINE, Cox’                          doz.  1 20       1 25
    French                                lb.     50         60
  GLYCERINE, 30°                    tin or “      22         25
    Price’s                                “      70         80
  GREEN, Paris                             “      20         22
  GUM, Aloes, Barb                         “      30         66
    Aloes, Cape                            “      20         25
      Socot                                “      45         80
      Powdered                             “      70         75
    Arabic, select                         “    1 00       1 10
        “     “  powdered                  “    1 10       1 20
      Sorts                                “      75         80
        “  powdered                        “      85         90
    Assafœtida                             “      24         28
    Benzoin                                “      50         90
    Catechu                                “      14         16
    Gamboge                                “    1 20       1 30
    Guaiacum                               “      60         90
    Myrrh                                  “      48         85
    Opium                                  “    3 75       4 00
      Powdered                             “    5 50       6 00
    Scammony, powdered                     “    6 25       7 00
      Virg                                 “   12 50      14 00
    Shellac, orange                        “      32         35
      Liver                                “      25         28
    Storax                                 “      55         65
    Tragacanth, flake                      “      75       1 00
      Common                               “      25         65
  HERB, Boneset                           lb.     20         25
    Goldthread                             “      60         75
    Horehound                              “      15         20½
    Lobelia                                “      15         20
  HONEY                                    “      20         30
  HOPS                                     “      30         40
  ICHTHYOL                                oz.     40         50
  INDIGO, Madras                          lb.     75         90
  INSECT POWDER, pure                      “      50         55
  IODINE, commercial                       “    5 00       5 50
    Resublimed                             “    5 50       6 00
  IRON, carbonate, precipitated            “      16         20
    Saccharated                            “      35         40
    Chloride, solution, B. P.              “      15         18
    Citrate and Ammonium                   “      75         80
      “  and Quinine                      oz.     20         40
      “  and Strychnine                    “      18         20
    Dialyzed, solution                    lb.     50         75
    Iodide, syrup                          “      40         45
    Pyrophosphate                          “    1 00       1 00
    Sulphate, pure                         “       8         10
  IODOFORM                                 “    6 00       7 00
  JAPONICA                                 “       8          9
  LEAD, Acetate, white                     “      12         14
    Sub-Acetate, sol.                      “      10         12
  LEAF, Belladonna                         “      25         30
    Buchu                                  “      18         20
    Coca                                   “      75         90
    Digitalis                              “      25         30
    Eucalyptus                             “      25         35
    Hyoscyamus                             “      25         30
    Jaborandi                              “      50         60
    Matico                                 “      75         80
    Senna, Alexandria                      “      50         75
      Tinnevelly                           “      15         25
      India                                “      15         17
    Stramonium                             “      25         30
    Uva Ursi                               “      15         17
  LEPTANDRIN                              oz.     50         60
  LIME, Chloride                          lb.      3¼         4½
      Packages                             “       6          7
    Hypophosphite                          “    1 50       2 00
    Phosphate                              “      35         38
    Sulphite                               “      10         11
  LIQUORICE, Solazzi                       “      45         50
    Pignatelli                             “      35         38
    Y. & S. Pellets                        “      40         00
    Other brands                           “      14         35
  LYE, concentrated                      doz.     90       1 00
  MADDER, best Dutch                      lb.     12½        14
  MAGNESIA, Carb., 1 oz.                   “      20         22
    Carb., 4 oz.                           “      16         20
    Calcined                               “      55         65
    Citrate, gran.                         “      40         75
    Sulphate                               “       1¼         3
  MANGANESE, black oxide                   “       4½         6
  MANNA                                    “    1 75
  MENTHOL                                  “    4 50       5 00
  MERCURY                                  “      75         85
    Ammoniated                             “    1 30       1 45
    Bichlor                                “    1 10       1 20
    Biniodide                              “    4 50       4 75
    Bisulphate                             “    1 15       1 25
    Chloride                               “    1 20       1 30
    C. Chalk                               “      55         60
    Nitric Oxide                           “    1 25       1 30
    Oleate                                 “    1 25       1 30
  MORPHIA, Acet.                          oz.   1 80       2 00
    Muriat.                                “    1 80       2 00
    Sulphat.                               “    1 90       2 00
  MOSS, Iceland                           lb.      9         10
    Irish                                  “      10½        12
  MUSK, Tonquin, rue                      oz.  36 00      40 00
    Canton                                 “      75         80
  NUTMEGS                                 lb.   1 00       1 05
  NUX VOMICA                               “       8         10
    Powdered                               “      22         24
  OIL, Almond, bitter                     oz.     75         80
         “  Sweet                         lb.     50         60
    Amber, rectified                       “      65         70
    Anise                                  “    3 00       3 20
    Bergamot                               “    3 75       4 00
    Cajuput                                “    1 25       1 50
    Caraway                                “    3 50       4 00
    Cassia                                 “    1 50       1 57
    Castor                                 “       9         15
    Cedar                                  “      75       1 25
    Citronella                            lb.     85         90
    Cloves                                 “    2 50       2 75
    Cod-liver, N. F.                     gal.     90       1 00
      Norwegian                            “    1 50       1 75
    Cotton Seed                            “    1 00       1 10
    Croton                                lb.   1 25       1 50
    Cubeb                                  “   15 00      16 00
    Geranium, India                        “    3 00       3 20
    Hemlock                                “      75         80
    Juniper                                “      65         70
    Lavender, English                     oz.   1 75       1 90
      French, pure                         “      75       1 00
    Lemon                                 lb.   1 90       2 20
    Lemon Grass                            “    1 50       1 60
    Linseed, boiled             9 lb.,   gal.     62         65
      Raw                                  “      60         65
    Neatsfoot                              “      90       1 00
    Olive, common                          “    1 30       1 40
      Salad                                “    2 00        2 75
    Orange                               lb.    2 75        3 00
    Origanum                              “       60          75
    Pennyroyal                            “     1 75        1 90
    Peppermint, English                   “     1 00        2 00
      American                            “     3 25        3 75
    Rose, Kissanlik                      oz.    9 00       14 00
      Good                                “     6 25        8 50
    Rosemary                             lb.      70          75
    Sandalwood                            “     5 50        8 00
    Sassafras                             “       65          75
    Seal, pale                           gal.     55          60
    Sperm, winter bleached                “     1 90        2 00
    Tansy                                lb.    4 25        4 50
    Union Salad                          gal.   1 10        1 15
    Wintergreen                          lb.    3 20        3 50
    Wormwood                              “     6 00        6 57
  OINTMENT, mercurial                     “       65          70
        Citrine                           “       35          38
  OPIUM. See Gum.
  ORANGE PEEL                             “       16          17
  PEPSIN, Eng.                            “     3 00        3 50
    Saccharated                           “     5 25        6 00
  PEPPER, black                           “       22          25
    Powdered                              “       25          27
    White powdered                        “       38          40
  PILL, Blue, Mass.                       “       60          65
  PILOCARPINE                            gr.       6          12
  PITCH, black                          bbl.    3 75        4 00
    Burgundy                             lb.      13          15
  PHOSPHORUS                              “       90        1 00
  PODOPHYLLIN                            oz.      40          45
  POPPY HEADS                            100      90          95
  POTASSA, caustic, white sticks         lb.      65          70
    Liquor                                “       10          12
  POTASSIUM, Acetate, granulated          “       50          55
    Bicarbonate                           “       17          20
    Bichromate                            “       12          13
    Bitartrate (Cream Tartar)             “       30          35
    Bromide                               “       55          58
    Carbonate                             “       13          15
    Chlorate                              “       18          20
    Cyanide, Fused                        “       40          52
    Iodide                                “     3 75        4 00
    Nitrate                               “        9          11
    Permanganate                          “       60          65
    Prussiate, yellow                     “       35          38
      And Sodium Tartrate (Rochelle Salt) “       32          38
    Sulphuret                             “       25          27
  QUASSIA                                 “       9           10
  QUININE, Howard’s                      oz.      45          47
    German                                “       35          40
  ROSIN, strained                       bbl.    2 75        3 75
    Clear, pale                           “     4 50        5 00
  ROOT, Aconite                          lb.      24          25
    Blood, powdered                       “       20          22
    Cohosh, black                         “       13          15
    Colchicum, German                     “       25          35
    Columbo                               “       20          22
      Powdered                            “       30          35
    Curcuma, ground                       “       13          15
    Elecampane                            “       15          17
      Powdered                            “       20          22
    Gentian                               “       10          12
      Ground                              “       12          14
      Powdered                            “       15          17
    Ginger, E. I.                         “       12          18
      Powdered                           lb.      14          20
      Jamaica                             “       24          28
        Powdered                          “       25          28
    Golden Seal, powdered                 “     1 00        1 10
    Hellebore, white, powdered            “       13          15
    Ipecac                                “     2 50        2 60
      Powdered                            “     2 75        3 00
    Jalap, powdered                       “       38          40
    Licorice, select                      “       13          15
      Powdered                            “       14          15
    Mandrake                              “       16          18
    Orris, Florentine                     “       17          20
      Powdered                            “       24          26
    Pink                                  “       90          95
    Rhubarb                               “       35          90
      Fine trimmed                        “     2 40        4 50
      Powdered                            “       60        2 25
    Sarsaparilla, Honduras                “       50          53
      Jamaica                             “       60          65
      Mexican                             “       20          25
    Seneka                                “       75          85
    Squill, white                         “       15          20
    Valerian, English                     “       18          20
  SAL SODA, by bbl.                       “       1⅛           3
  SACCHARIN                              oz.    1 25        1 50
  SALICIN                                lb.    3 25        3 75
  SANTONIN                                “     2 50        2 75
  SEED, Anise, Italian                    “       14          15
          “    Star                       “       35          38
    Canary, Sicily                        “        4           5
    Caraway                               “       10          12
    Cardamon, Malabar                     “     1 00        1 25
      Decorticated                        “     1 50        2 00
    Celery                                “       25          30
    Colchicum, German                     “       90        1 00
    Coriander                             “       10          12
    Flax, cleaned, Ontario           100 lbs.   3 25        3 50
      Imported                            “     0 00        0 00
    Fenugreek, powdered                  lb.       7           9
    Hemp                                  “        5           5½
    Mustard, white                        “        9          11
      Powdered                            “       20          45
    Rape                                  “        8           9
  SAFFRON, American                       “       35          50
    Spanish                              oz.    1 10        1 25
  SAGE                                   lb.       7           8
  SILVER, Nitrate                 cash,   “    11 00       13 00
  SOAP, Castile, mottled                  “       8½          12
           “     white                    “       13          16
  SODA, Ash         keg or cask,          “       1¾          2¼
    Caustic              drum or          “       2¾          5
  SODIUM, Acetate                         “       25         30
    Bicarb., Howard’s                     “       16         17
       “  Newcastle                      keg    2 50       2 75
    Carbonate, crystal                   lb.      2½          3
    Hyposulphite                          “       3           4
    Salicylate                            “     2 25       2 50
    Sulphate, Glauber’s Salt              “       1½          3
  STRYCHNINE, crystals                   oz.    1 10       1 25
  SULPHUR, precipitated                  lb.      13         20
    Sublimed                              “        3          4
    Roll                                  “        2½         3½
  TIN, Muriate, crystals                  “       35         37
  TAMARINDS                               “       14         15
  TAR                                   bbl.    4 50       4 75
    Barbadoes                            lb.      10         12
  TEREBENE                                “       75         90
  TURPENTINE, Spirits                   gal.      60         75
    Chian                                oz.      90       2 50
    Venice                               lb.      10         13
  VERATRIA                               oz.    2 00       2 50
  VERDIGRIS                              lb.      35         55
  WAX, white, pure                        “       55         75
    Yellow                                “       42         45
    Paraffine                             “       17         20
  WOODS, Camwood                          “        5½         8
    Fustic, Cuban                         “        2½         3
    Logwood, Campeachy                    “        2¾         3
    Quassia                               “        9         10
    Redwood                               “        3½         5
  ZINC, Chloride                          “     1 10       1 25
    Oxide                                 “       13         60
    Sulphate, pure                        “        9         12
       “  common                          “        7          9
    Valerianate                          oz.      25         28
    Sulphocarbolate                      lb.    1 00       1 10

Printed for the Publisher by the Grocer Publishing Co., Printers and
Publishers, 5 Jordan St., Toronto.










End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Canadian Druggist, Vol., 1, No. 2;
August, 1889, by William J. Dyas

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CANADIAN DRUGGIST, VOL., 1, NO. 2; AUGUST, 1889 ***

***** This file should be named 52116-0.txt or 52116-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/2/1/1/52116/

Produced by Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images available at The Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
